<div>

[![W3C](https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C){border="0"
height="48" width="72"}](https://www.w3.org/)

</div>

# Publishing Maintenance Working Group

This is the repository used for the everyday operation of the [W3C
Publishing Maintenance Working Group](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/pm).
See also [charter of the Working
Group](https://www.w3.org/2025/02/pmwg-charter.html) for further
details.

The list or other github repositories, maintained by this Working Group,
is also available [on-line](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/pm/tools/).

## Minutes

Minutes are taken using the [W3C Bots on
IRC](https://www.w3.org/2008/04/scribe.html), namely
[RRSAgent](https://www.w3.org/2002/03/RRSAgent) and
[Zakim](https://www.w3.org/2001/12/zakim-irc-bot.html). See also the
separate page on [IRC](https://www.w3.org/Project/IRC/) for further
details on how to access the W3C IRC servers. The PM Working Group uses
the `#pmwg` IRC Channel. The minutes of the meetings, including the
minutes of the WG Task Forces, are stored on the `minutes` folder on
this repository under the name `YYYY-MM-DD[-TF].html` (where the
optional `[-TF]` stands for `-a11y`, `-ann`, `-dc`, or `-fxl` for the
accessibility, annotation, digital comics, and fixed layout task forces,
respectively). An [index page](./minutes/index.html) displaying the list
of all minutes with their respective table of contents, as well as a
[resolution page](./minutes/resolutions.html) listing the formal
resolutions passed by the Working Group, are generated automatically.

## Contributing to the Publishing Maintenance Working Group Repositories

Use the standard fork, branch, and pull request workflow to propose
changes to the repository contents. Please make branch names
informative---by including the issue or bug number for example.

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md), about licensing
contributions.
