<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>PM WG F2F Day 2 &ndash; 12 September 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>
PM WG F2F Day 2</h1>
<h2>12 September 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/09/12-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AvneeshSingh, CharlesL, Daihei, gautier, gendler, gpellegrino, hadrien, Ken_Jones, ivan, laurent, makoto, MasakazuKitahara, naomi, rdeltour, romain, shadi, shiestyle, toshiakikoike, wendyreid, wolfgang</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>shinya, wendy</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>gautier, gendler, wendyreid</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#x0">EPUB to ISO (cont.)</a></li>
<li><a href="#t01">Webtoons Standardization</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">FXL Accessibility</a></li>
<li><a href="#x02">TDMRep and EPUB</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">EPUB Annotations</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section>
<h3 id="x0">EPUB to ISO (cont.)</h3>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> yesterday we finished the day with an objection on ISO. We have to rediscuss. We want  to update the iso version to up to date epub. Various countires on the world relay on iso.</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we must consider the changes in relacion of epub with wcag that hapens with epub 3.3 / epub accessibility 1.1..</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> is there any questio or comment before we open this resolution again?</p>
<p id=x035 class=irc><cite>&lt;MURATA&gt;</cite> -1</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s02"><cite>Shiestyl:</cite> it's complicated situation, transition to iso is kind of risk for exemple in japan. epub accessibility 1.0 was made normative in Japan, but we haven't do anything about accessibility. We plan to.</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> if we move with current rec to iso, it should be our intention as w3C that if in the futur we come with a version beyond, we'll move it to iso also...<br>
<span id=x047>… what happend with idpf (they lost contact with iso) should not happen here...</span><br>
<span id=x048>… i suggest we add a commitement to submit any new version to iso...</span><br>
<span id=x049>… in ipdf time move to iso was a long and hard process to rewrite everything. At W3C we have a different way / agrement with iso, they just take our document, the content stays the same. Would you accept that as an additional comitement?</span></p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s04"><cite>shiestyl_:</cite> yes</p>
<p id=x055 class=irc><cite>&lt;MURATA&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s05"><cite>brady:</cite> as it seems that contradiction has been removed i suggest we move to end of discussion and proceed.</p>
<p id=x057 class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> 1-</p>
<p id=x059 class=irc><cite>&lt;MURATA&gt;</cite> Ivan is the liaison officer from W3C to SC34</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s06"><cite>leonardr:</cite> i support ivan proposal.</p>
<p id=x061 class=irc><cite>&lt;MURATA&gt;</cite> I am the one in the opposite direction.</p>
<p id=x062 class=irc><cite>&lt;leonardr&gt;</cite> FYI; info on the PAS process.  <a href="https://www.iso.org/sites/directives/current/consolidated/index.html#_Toc134090822">https://<wbr>www.iso.org/<wbr>sites/<wbr>directives/<wbr>current/<wbr>consolidated/<wbr>index.html#_Toc134090822</a></p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> first proposal keeps the next as yesterday. and a second proposal is added to state on commitement with the futur.</p>
<p id=x066 class=irc><cite>&lt;MURATA&gt;</cite> Not in Japan.</p>
<p id=x068 class=irc><cite>&lt;MURATA&gt;</cite> Not in Korea.</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s07"><cite>cristina:</cite> i still have some dobt with the automatic choice. I don't understand why we would have to do everytime to iso. In Europe Iso is not everytime accepted as european standard, we might have to make europeans ones at on etimes.</p>
<p id=x071 class="phone s07"><cite>cristina:</cite> i don't think we have to oblige now w3C for ever</p>
<p id=x074 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> iso does not have right to change our standard. they only refer to our standard.</p>
<p id=x075 class=irc><cite>&lt;MURATA&gt;</cite> -1</p>
<p id=x077 class=irc><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> aq+</p>
<p id=x079 class=irc><cite>&lt;MURATA&gt;</cite> -100000000</p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s06"><cite>leonardr:</cite> iso committee can make comments, and we accept or not changes. i suggest any organisation around the table to enlist as iso member.</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> it is also possible nothing happens at iso</p>
<p id=x085 class="phone s08"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> having our recs as iso is very important.</p>
<p id=x087 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we do have to recognize that some countries has iso valid, even if not all countries, we have to take that in count. I agree the situation of this group may change. I'm happy to rewrite my proposal so it's not &quot;for ever&quot; but still stick with a commitment about future procedures.</p>
<p id=x088 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we do have to recognize that some countries has iso valid, even if not all countries, we have to take that in count. I agree the situation of this group may change. I'm happy to rewrite my proposal so it's not &quot;for ever&quot; but still stick with a commitment about futur procedures.;</p>
<p id=x089 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> Proposed: WG agrees to explore publishing to ISO when we have a new version of EPUB, EPUB Reading Systems, or EPUB Accessibility</p>
<p id=x090 class=irc><cite>&lt;leonardr&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x091 class=irc><cite>&lt;MURATA&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x092 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x093 class=summary>+1</p>
<p id=x094 class=irc><cite>&lt;toshiakikoike&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x095 class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x096 class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyl_&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x097 class=irc><cite>&lt;laurent_&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x098 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x099 class=irc><cite>&lt;MasakazuKitahara&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x100 class=irc><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x101 class=irc><cite>&lt;duga&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x102 class=irc><cite>&lt;Daihei&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x103 class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> 0</p>
<p id=r01 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> WG agrees to explore publishing to ISO when we have a new version of EPUB, EPUB Reading Systems, or EPUB Accessibility</p>
<p id=x105 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> Proposed: WG agrees to publish the 3 recs as ISO standards under PAS process once the European Process is completed</p>
<p id=x106 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x107 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x108 class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x109 class=summary>+1</p>
<p id=x110 class=irc><cite>&lt;MURATA&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x111 class=irc><cite>&lt;laurent_&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x112 class=irc><cite>&lt;duga&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x113 class=irc><cite>&lt;leonardr&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x114 class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyl_&gt;</cite> 0</p>
<p id=x115 class=irc><cite>&lt;toshiakikoike&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x116 class=irc><cite>&lt;MasakazuKitahara&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x117 class=irc><cite>&lt;Daihei&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x118 class=irc><cite>&lt;romain&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x119 class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> 0</p>
<p id=r02 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> WG agrees to publish the 3 recs as ISO standards under PAS process once the European Process is completed</p>
<p id=x121 class=irc><cite>&lt;MURATA&gt;</cite> JWG7 will have a virtual meeting tomorrow night.</p>
<p id=x123 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> it could be good to have someone to go to iso meetings.</p>
<p id=x125 class=irc><cite>&lt;MURATA&gt;</cite> +1</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Webtoons Standardization</h3>
<p id=x127 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2412">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2412</a></p>
<p>See <a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/09/pmwg-slides/webtoons/">slides online</a></p>
<p id=x131 class="phone s04"><cite>shiestyl_:</cite> (sharescreen)...<br>
<span id=x132>… current situation in Japan is we use epub 3.3 for webtoon, but no appropriate feature. Discussion at TPAC 2022 was not resolved...</span><br>
<span id=x133>… some RS already adopted rendition:flow in OPF. both pre-paginated and rendition:flow are specified...</span></p>
<p id=x135 class="phone s09"><cite>duga:</cite> i remember last year we decided to push discussion to community group, but that not happened. we are just retaking 2022 discussion at the same point.</p>
<p id=x137 class="phone s04"><cite>shiestyl_:</cite> (demo): with no rendition tag, move left to right. with rendition flow: automatically top to bottom</p>
<p id=x143 class="phone s10"><cite>gautier:</cite> As a user, I want to have a choice of the way I read<br>
<span id=x144>… I don't want to be obliged to read a way</span></p>
<p id=x147 class="phone s04"><cite>shiestyl_:</cite> Some reading systems can change, Apple does not, but others do<br>
<span id=x148>… depends on the system</span></p>
<p id=x149 class="phone s11"><cite>laurent_:</cite> </p>
<p id=x151 class="phone s04"><cite>shiestyl_:</cite> some reading systems don't allow for change</p>
<p id=x154 class="phone s11"><cite>laurent_:</cite> i appreciate prototype but i dislike when a company imposes a choice to other RS without speaking with group. That's what happens now, i think it's a bad move.</p>
<p id=x156 class="phone s09"><cite>duga:</cite> i believe it's up to RS to propose override. I agree with Laurent, i would have preferred discussion and time to address it. But also I would be annoyed to take no decision and stick with a stuck situation;</p>
<p id=x161 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> looking at the spec. it is a very minor change, webtoon is very much a format here to stay, as a user i'm not sure epub is much used, and i'm concerned about the accessibility. Yes it should go to a better incubation process, we should certainly recommend user switch possibilities.</p>
<p id=x162 class="phone s12"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> i think it's misaligned with how we and epub works. webtoon is a single strip of image. divided in files for optimization. You could end up with display not ok, it's a terrible reading user experience in a lot of RS that don't support scrolling. RS end up looking at what is on the file and ignore opf.</p>
<p id=x169 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> my understanding is that there is currently a restriction in the spec. The change would be to stop this restriction and extend semantic. From the start my problem is with the terminology: is this a class 4 change (the line is thin betwenn class 3 and 4)...<br>
<span id=x170>… even if change is editorially simple, it means that epubcheck has to change, new features are requested for RS, etc.</span></p>
<p id=x172 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> we are not allowed to do class 4 changes.</p>
<p id=x174 class="phone s04"><cite>shiestyl_:</cite> considering situation of apple and amazon, if we have new feature for webtoons, i wonder (not sure) they will follow. It's not a good situation to have new feature. I understand it's not suitable, but market situation is to be considered.</p>
<p id=x177 class="phone s11"><cite>laurent_:</cite> i agree with Ivan, it affects all RS to do heavy dev to adapt. If there is a commercial problem and japanese industry really wants. I see a solution: one html only with sequence of mages would work everywhere. It's a naive implementation that could be complex with a lot of images...<br>
<span id=x178>… this will work today.</span></p>
<p id=x182 class="phone s09"><cite>duga:</cite> i agree it's real change. I don't think RS have to evolve as they can just ignore the metadata; it's business decision more than technical discussion. I agree with Laurent's solution, would work today, out of the box. It would be great to have people who implemented that in the room. it's dangerous to accept to align with a solution that was not discussed here and that breaks the spec.</p>
<p id=x188 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> class 3 version would be we add &quot;RS may ignore&quot; ; class 4 would be to completely rewrite and specify rendition flow in FXL. This is a challenge, there is a technical side to a business discussion. Webtoons are more and more popular, we are probably late for this discussion. If we don't address it we'll see more and more RS implementing the way they want. We also have to respect users...<br>
<span id=x189>… we also are overtime, i don't think we can take a decision today</span></p>
<p id=x191 class="phone s12"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> i feel that's a bad decision for good business reason...<br>
<span id=x192>… we need a metadata hat says it's a webtoon. should be a specialized one, not a tweak.</span></p>
<p id=x196 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> the proper way i agree would be to have dedicated metadata. If we move away with this discussion, we have to re open a charter. But for some business reason we had this decision a year ago.</p>
<p id=x197 class=irc><cite>&lt;leonardr_&gt;</cite> It's 4am here - you don't want me scribing ;)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>FXL Accessibility</h3>
<p id=x203 class=summary><a href="https://w3c.github.io/epub-specs/epub33/fxl-a11y/">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>epub-specs/<wbr>epub33/<wbr>fxl-a11y/</a></p>
<p id=x204 class=summary><a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NUaO5gvboK23ssvj-j2bcJ_I8AQyN9wr1qcjzuQFXgg/edit#heading=h.4sb3bzctqshh">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1NUaO5gvboK23ssvj-j2bcJ_I8AQyN9wr1qcjzuQFXgg/<wbr>edit#heading=h.4sb3bzctqshh</a></p>
<p id=x205 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> This session was going to be about what's been going on in the TF, current draft posted, google link is working doc.</p>
<p id=x206 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> Starting with what we've been up to, secondly what we learned we should not be doing.</p>
<p id=x207 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> Writing doc on guidance for content creators on FXL accessibility.</p>
<p id=x208 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> How do we give advice for common features in FXL books, and best practices in content development.</p>
<p id=x209 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> many things we can do, there are still barriers that fxl cannot overcome. Biggest barriers: low vision and dyslexia accessibility issues. Users need layout adjustments that are currently not possible</p>
<p id=x210 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> Interesting discussion around potential to change fixed layout, or potentially to introduce new concepts into layouts or improve underspecified epub concepts.</p>
<p id=x211 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> technically possible in EPUB, but not explained well, which is likely why it has low implementation</p>
<p id=x213 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> Discussed possibility of visual textual, visual setting for changing from fixed layout to reflow with different style sheet</p>
<p id=x215 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> extended discussion to what reading systems should do with fixed layout, we only give advice to content creators at the moment.</p>
<p id=x216 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> what features whould FXL readers make accessible.</p>
<p id=x218 class=summary>Lately, been exploring different ways to fix fixed layout content to be more accessible. Looking into SVG implementations. Want to discuss vision based content as well.</p>
<p id=x219 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> Want to do more exploration with CSS possibilities for things that are currently handled with JavaScript. CSS has improved.</p>
<p id=x220 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> As you can tell, we have been all over the place, rooted in what's happening but also in potentials of format.</p>
<p id=x222 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> As discussed yesterday, what we need in the short term is a document that addresses the needs of content creation as it relates to fixed layout content.</p>
<p id=x224 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> Pivoting to; what content needs to be in this document to address needs of Euro commission in short term (next three months), what else do we need to be comfortable to publish as a note.</p>
<p id=x228 class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> we can ask ChatGPT to fill in the text!</p>
<p id=x229 class="phone s14"><cite>Charles:</cite> One thing, I was assigned to outline for reading systems, setting up headers for different levels. That section needs advice from reading systems on how/what to recommend.</p>
<p id=x234 class="phone s15"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> It seems to me that this work requires more R&amp;D, it is incubation work, and I'm not sure in the short term we can come up with something valuable.</p>
<p id=x235 class="phone s15"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> Better to focus on what we have now, and then we can start again with more exciting R&amp;D, but that may take years.</p>
<p id=x239 class="phone s10"><cite>gautier:</cite> I agree, the EU legislation is giving us obligations to do as quickly as possible. It is important to note, in France, there is a lot of pressure. On r&amp;D, given the long list of what Wendy mentioned we should prioritize what we can do now vs. the future.</p>
<p id=x240 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> Logistical note; Thank you Charles. Agreed, gpellegrino, we need to split this into two work efforts. CG could publish note, would look better coming from WG. Would like to continue incubation work, as FXL is not enough.</p>
<p id=x242 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> People need advice in the short term, in the long term we need to improve. In the short term: what are the concrete things that we know will be helpful, today. The question is, do we want to do content and reading systems, and how far do we take scopeHadrien</p>
<p id=x244 class="phone s16"><cite>Shadi:</cite> Continuing off of last question, I agree with suggestion, our strategy overall, w/r/t EU Commission, we don't want them to be writing tech requirements, we want them to point back to this group where tech expertise is.</p>
<p id=x245 class="phone s16"><cite>Shadi:</cite> What is needed in the short term is what is the problem description, what are limitations for certain kinds of publications.</p>
<p id=x247 class="phone s16"><cite>Shadi:</cite> Question of getting closer to accessibility is a separate question. Certain layouts cannot be enlarged, doesn't mean other aspects cannot be made accessible.</p>
<p id=x249 class="phone s16"><cite>Shadi:</cite> We don't want to end up in a situation where we apply EPUB accessibility across the bench.</p>
<p id=x252 class="phone s12"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> By allowing this, we've opened a pandora's box. Difficult to close. On short term basis, difficult to do much, if anything.</p>
<p id=x253 class="phone s12"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> The more we explore, the more we realize that this is a mix of potential best practices and things that will require us to return to spec and change things.</p>
<p id=x257 class="phone s12"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> We do not know the shape of it, in the end. Short term is a good request.</p>
<p id=x258 class="phone s17"><cite>Avneesh:</cite> I agree with what Hadrien said. There are issues with fixed layout accessibility. If we want a startegic move, we don't want to suggest that reflow is better.</p>
<p id=x259 class="phone s17"><cite>Avneesh:</cite> If we can achieve this, it is not an issue to not have an immediate solution. I think it would be a good thing to aim for the short term solution.</p>
<p id=x263 class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/epub-a11y-eaa-mapping/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>epub-a11y-eaa-mapping/</a></p>
<p id=x264 class="phone s15"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> One thing that we can do is update the mapping that we did between the Accessibilty Act and EAA. We made an assumption that it was for reflow. We may add some notes with the limitations of fixed layouts with what can be achieved now vs what cannot be.</p>
<p id=x266 class="phone s16"><cite>shadi:</cite> Agreed, first it is an existing document; easier for us, easier for those that consume.</p>
<p id=x267 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> queue closed because we are at break time. Sounds like we have a scope; paint a picture on current state and provide information on what we can now. Think about future state later.</p>
<p id=x268 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> We will probably need to discuss logistics, can do so at end of session.</p>
<p id=x269 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> Adjourned for 20 minutes.</p>
<p id=x270 class=summary>Thank you wolfgang for your numerous spell checks!</p>
<p id=x271 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> Enough people have returned that we can restart proceedings.</p>

</section>
<section>
<h3 id=x02>TDMRep and EPUB</h3>

<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/09/pmwg-slides/tdmrep.pdf">See slides on-line</a>.


<p id=x272 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> We have Laurent, who has asked to do a presentation on TDMRep and AI opt-out</p>
<p id=x273 class="phone s18"><cite>Laurent:</cite> I will take 15 minutes to discuss TDMRep opt-out. First, context, EU CDSM Directive states that anyone who has legal access to resource can freely download and use for TDM.</p>
<p id=x275 class=summary>It says that publishers can opt-out with a machine readable means, but void for scientific research.</p>
<p id=x276 class="phone s18"><cite>Laurent:</cite> AIE (Italy) and ERDLab created TDM Res Protocol CG in 2021</p>
<p id=x277 class="phone s18"><cite>Laurent:</cite> 45 people joined, mostly publishers, final report released on Feb, 2022. POC was developed by cairn.info and seraphine.legal (both french.)</p>
<p id=x278 class="phone s18"><cite>Laurent:</cite> Objective = blocking a class of rotbots, not one specific robot, and being very simple to implement. One boolean property: opt-out or not. Optional url to point to an ODRL 2.2. json resource which contains the publisher's contact and conditions for obtaining mining rights.</p>
<p id=x280 class="phone s18"><cite>Laurent:</cite> Properties 'tdm-reservation' and 'tdm =policy', expressible in the HTTP header of each resource, in a well-known file (tdmrep.json) or as html metadata</p>
<p id=x281 class="phone s18"><cite>Laurent:</cite> New interest triggered by growth of gen-AI, the FEP supports the solution. French and North European Publishers as well.</p>
<p id=x286 class="phone s18"><cite>Laurent:</cite> Urgent need: reach global consensus that &quot;TDM&quot; covers &quot;AI&quot;</p>
<p id=x288 class="phone s18"><cite>Laurent:</cite> Some publishers would like to embed this information inside of EPUBs they publish. There would be no impact on doing so outside of W3C, but it would be better. Nobody seems to care about embedding this in ONIX records, which should make sense.</p>
<p id=x289 class="phone s18"><cite>Laurent:</cite> Proposal, Use OPF metadata, specify that the directives cover every resource in the EPUB. Define a new namespace with prefix 'tdm' (or 'tdmai') simply add two info, tdm:reservation: boolean and tdm:policy: URL. TDMRep CG can write specification, ok?</p>
<p id=x294 class="phone s18"><cite>Laurent:</cite> Some publishers really want to put this in the EPUB itself, possibly because they want to avoid user downloads of EPUB and then imput into AI training.</p>
<p id=x297 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> You already answered my initial question of where we put it in the EPUB. To your question of why this vs. ONIX, I understand because ONIX is easily divorced from the book.</p>
<p id=x301 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> Recent controversy, revealed that a GEN AI company, that a group of researchers through a backend exploit grabbed a large number of EPUBs from smashboard. Technically a violation of policy of website, but would help to have EPUB policy also explicit.</p>
<p id=x302 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> May be good to have both in ONIX and EPUB.</p>
<p id=x305 class=irc><cite>&lt;Zakim&gt;</cite> tzviya, you wanted to recommend publishing tdm in tr (somewhere)</p>
<p id=x306 class="phone s19"><cite>tzviya:</cite> All LLMs have used the Books2 or 3 model, which include copyrighted books My question is a little off topic. Laurent, we should discuss publishing report more publicly. In proper track.</p>
<p id=x307 class="phone s19"><cite>tzviya:</cite> i really support this. Second, I was loosely involved with this, you have not discussed scholarly publishing, has their been input from that world?</p>
<p id=x308 class="phone s18"><cite>Laurent:</cite> We did not have much input from scholarly publishing.</p>
<p id=x315 class="phone s20"><cite>gendler:</cite> Couple things, I primarily come from news publishing<br>
<span id=x316>… and book publishing, we're looking at this actively</span><br>
<span id=x317>… other questions of its usefulness, there is a breakout session tomorrow</span><br>
<span id=x318>… we might take this on here, but there will be a lot of adjacent discussions</span></p>
<p id=x320 class="phone s09"><cite>duga:</cite> I'm a little surprised how eager everyone is for this. A couple of concerns, first, almost trivial, is TDMRep the right solutions. Other groups are working on similar things.</p>
<p id=x321 class="phone s09"><cite>duga:</cite> Would like to do more research before jumping on TDMRep as the right solution. Bigger concern, feels like we are adding DRM to EPUB metadata, and that worries me.</p>
<p id=x322 class="phone s09"><cite>duga:</cite> we do not do DRM, and this is some sort of putting rights in the EPUB. We use contracts, that should handle the use of the EPUBs, sounds like the real concern is just for downloaded EPUBs.</p>
<p id=x323 class=summary>+1</p>
<p id=x324 class="phone s09"><cite>duga:</cite> not excited to add this without understanding further ramifications of this proposal.</p>
<p id=x325 class="phone s18"><cite>laurent:</cite> the contract, at least in Europe, is overridden by the law, where the permissions structure is that it is allowed unless the publisher opts out.</p>
<p id=x326 class="phone s09"><cite>duga:</cite> the contract says I can do whatever I want, but your TDMRep says no I opt-out, would that be illegal?</p>
<p id=x327 class="phone s18"><cite>Laurent:</cite> I believe so, because the law says so.</p>
<p id=x328 class=irc><cite>&lt;leonardr&gt;</cite> @duga - it depends on where you are in the world...(and the laws are still in flux)</p>
<p id=x329 class="phone s09"><cite>duga:</cite> Well then I have a concern that I may have a contract with you, but then I'm somehow breaking the law. So I am even more concerned about using this directly in EPUB</p>
<p id=x331 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> A follow up to what Brady said,I have an alternative proposal not sure whether to present it now, or save for later.</p>
<p id=x332 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> Let's hold for later.</p>
<p id=x334 class="phone s03"><cite>Ivan:</cite> Several things, I wasn't here at the very beginning, my understanding is that the TDM is based on a legal requirement. Now, did the EU give its blessing that the TDM Rep is one of the answers?</p>
<p id=x335 class=irc><cite>&lt;wolfgang&gt;</cite> s/begging/beginning/</p>
<p id=x336 class="phone s18"><cite>laurent:</cite> The EU have not blessed this as THE answer, but as a possible answer. The EU commission suggests that any machine readable solution will be good enough.</p>
<p id=x337 class="phone s18"><cite>laurent:</cite> they will not bless any specific solution.</p>
<p id=x338 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> More specifically to our case, is the formulation of the EU Directive and the creation of the TDM Rep, if inserted into EPUB also going to be considered a valid machine readable solution. This is fundamentally different from what we started with.</p>
<p id=x339 class="phone s18"><cite>laurent:</cite> they don't specify whether the data should be inside the content or outside of the content. As shown, we could put it inside or outside of the html. I know that initially, I, wanted it to be outside of the content, but not required.</p>
<p id=x340 class="phone s03"><cite>Ivan:</cite> different level, provided the answer is to go ahead, at the moment the TDM is a CG report. It would probably give much more weight if it was in PR space. It would not be appropriate to push ahead without doing so. It would require a separate interest group or something.</p>
<p id=x341 class=summary><a href="https://www.w3.org/2022/tdmrep/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2022/<wbr>tdmrep/</a></p>
<p id=x342 class="phone s18"><cite>laurent:</cite> I am a proponent of prototyping and pushing ahead with what we have. Ivan: Just highlighting potential pitfalls.</p>
<p id=x345 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> This raises a slightly more general question, it is adding metadata to OPF, which is mechanically fine, and standard. Is it possible that this is the kind of action that may come from other sources as well. Do we as a WG push back on this specific question vs. how is similar metadata from other WG incorporated into our work. Do we need a registry mechanism?</p>
<p id=x346 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> possible that other WG would register metadata that they want added to the OPF.</p>
<p id=x347 class=irc><cite>&lt;leonardr&gt;</cite> +1 to @tzviya cringing!</p>
<p id=x348 class="phone s18"><cite>laurent:</cite> I agree with this possibillity. Ivan: this would be well within our charter to set up such a registry. We may need to discuss whether we want that or not.</p>
<p id=x351 class="phone s15"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> I have seen a lot of EPUBs with internal metadata, we have a mechanism by which to add metadata into OPF. We do not need a standard approach, if the industry wants to add it, they can do so directly.</p>
<p id=x353 class="phone s03"><cite>Ivan:</cite> but we should as a WG give a blessing or not, which can give it weight. I don't want to get into a debate on decentralization, because we will be here all week. Simply, do we want to give our blessing to things, or no?</p>
<p id=x356 class="phone s13"><cite>wendy:</cite> I don't know if we want a registry, I also see Brady's concerns, and they are incredibly valid. This is another example of something the industry is concerned about, and we need to handle that. I don't want to bless a specific solution, TDM may be what we settle on, but leonard has other proposals, and max has mentioned others as well. A proposal for EPUB may be to have a namespace for general solutions so that we can allow it to be open, [CUT]</p>
<p id=x357 class="phone s13"><cite>wendy:</cite> specific. Because we do want to be open.</p>
<p id=x358 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> what is the next step as far as we are concerned?</p>
<p id=x359 class="phone s18"><cite>laurent:</cite> we need to discuss that what we have done with TDM covers AI. We need more communication on these topics as well, from prototype to something that is industry wide.</p>
<p id=x360 class="phone s18"><cite>laurent:</cite> for the EPUB inclusion, the TDMRep CG will work on a draft and come back to the WG with proposal.</p>
<p id=x361 class=summary><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/tdmrep/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>community/<wbr>tdmrep/</a></p>
<p id=x363 class="phone s09"><cite>duga:</cite> Is there a potential for moving CG to WG?</p>
<p id=x364 class="phone s18"><cite>laurent:</cite> we are discussing with other groups, those that create APIs, we want to have traction and stabilize the work before chartering a WG to build a standard.</p>
<p id=x366 class=irc><cite>&lt;duga&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x367 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> it seems premature to discuss implementing TDMRep before we have discussed whether TDMRep is how we will go forward.</p>
<p id=x368 class="phone s13"><cite>wendy:</cite> leonard, would you care to show your alternative proposal.</p>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/09/pmwg-slides/CAI-C2PA.pdf">Leonard's presentation slides.</a></p>
<p id=x369 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> I am presenting this on behalf of the C2PA. Mentioned as part of the anti-counterfeit work. This started in 2019 around misinformation, adapted work that had already been out there. This led us to the area of TDM</p>
<p id=x370 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> C2PA is the standard body under Linux Foundation, they build standard. Content Authenticity Initiative is a group that is implementing the standard, and is educating users/legislators.</p>
<p id=x373 class=summary>C2PA has approx. 100 memebrs. We have Liasons from ISO, IPTX, ETSI, PDF Assoc.</p>
<p id=x374 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> CAI, much larger group. C2PA Spec 1.3 available online. CAI Open Source implemntation as well. Hardware implementations exist as well. We have a content credential. Uses a W3C verifiable credential.</p>
<p id=x375 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> includes assertions on provenance, and digital signature as well. Inludes action asseritions, which includes when gen-AI has been used in the creation of a piece of content. Has been chosen by Google to identify AI content.</p>
<p id=x376 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> has a Do Not Train assertion, modeled on top of the TDMRep work. We separate out training, gen training, inference, and mining. Not just a boolean, allowed, not allowed or constrained.</p>
<p id=x377 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> we use digital signatures for a trust model. Same approach used as PDFs and the Web. C2PA manifests can be embedded already into a number of formates. EPUB does not work with v1.3, we intend to add to v1.4</p>
<p id=x379 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> we also have members of our org that are storing these in seperate file systes, cloud, blockchain, etc.</p>
<p id=x380 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> a lot of questions coming up about legislation. C2PA has been working actively with U.S. Recently spoke with many legislative bodies to discuss how C2PA addresses these needs. This is a top priority for most governments in the world.</p>
<p id=x381 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> C2PA is ahead because if is already in use in the field, and supports many file formats.</p>
<p id=x382 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> as a publisher, if you're still delivering PDF, you can use the same format for both PDF and EPUB. Can do it as parts of the content, and not entitery if you'd like.</p>
<p id=x389 class="phone s18"><cite>laurent:</cite> Just wanted to add that we are in discussions with leonard. I have some issues with C2PA, the adoption on provenance is good, but do not train adoption is not good. This for me is an issue that needs to be addressed.</p>
<p id=x392 class="phone s18"><cite>laurent:</cite> we feel that it is overly complex for permissioning, most users are not technically savvy enough. It gives a very narrow definition of what is TDM, much narrower than what the EU commision gives.</p>
<p id=x394 class="phone s18"><cite>laurent:</cite> different definitions of what is covered will create a large set of issues. But, we are ready to work together!</p>
<p id=x397 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> I do not disagree with some of your points, our solution is broader than just TDM, as it was intended to. Agreed details on AI need to continue to be looked at. My concern with your implementation, is you can download assets with DNT assertions already. It is implemented on that side, but not enough AI systems are reading that information.</p>
<p id=x399 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> there is at least one open source implementation that is doing so today.</p>
<p id=x400 class="phone s13"><cite>wendy:</cite> is there a link somewhere to documents that you can put into the IRC for us to look at?</p>
<p id=x402 class=irc><cite>&lt;leonardr&gt;</cite> <a href="https://c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/1.3/specs/C2PA_Specification.html">https://<wbr>c2pa.org/<wbr>specifications/<wbr>specifications/<wbr>1.3/<wbr>specs/<wbr>C2PA_Specification.html</a></p>
<p id=x403 class="phone s14"><cite>charles:</cite> I'm just trying to understand, would the whole publication, when you create a digital signature to say it's authentic, how do you put that into the metadata, which would in turn change the signature?</p>
<p id=x404 class="phone s21"><cite>leonard:</cite> this is a problem that has been around for 20 years, and has actually be solved. When you hash the data, not all of the bytes from start to finish, you leave a gap in the middle in order to put the signature in, by creating space for it does not affect the final hash.</p>
<p id=x405 class="phone s13"><cite>Wendy:</cite> five minute break, and then we will head into our last session for what we haven't discussed. I would like to start with annotations.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>EPUB Annotations</h3>

<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/09/pmwg-slides/annotations.pdf">See slides on line</a>.

<p id=x408 class=summary><a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/annotation-protocol/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>annotation-protocol/</a></p>
<p id=x409 class=summary><a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/annotation-model/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>annotation-model/</a></p>
<p id=x410 class="phone s11"><cite>laurent_:</cite> in our RS we are integrating anotations, decided to use w3C annotations, allow detached annotations and embedded anotations. we want to make sure they are shareable and interoperable. will also watch about hypothesis.</p>
<p id=x412 class="phone s11"><cite>laurent_:</cite> we find missings: created and modified properties ; body only plain text ; text direction, language and color properties</p>
<p id=x419 class="phone s11"><cite>laurent_:</cite> we got a problem for location inside the file. we want to pint to a resource via several ways (cfi, textquoteselector and specific readium selectors including progression and domRange)...<br>
<span id=x420>… sets ocollection: there is a collection model but with burdens. partOf, cumbersome, first page last page we find no use of that.</span><br>
<span id=x421>… big issue is identifying the source publication; we think to add a new property &quot;about&quot; to log dc id title, publisher, source to have different options to identify correctly. with that we'll define an importation model with user choice to make sure one collection don't erase another one.</span></p>
<p id=x423 class="phone s11"><cite>laurent_:</cite> we also add generator property to identify where the anotations come from.</p>
<p id=x425 class="phone s11"><cite>laurent_:</cite> i will share this presentation for more precise indication (and links to references). And hope to discuss in the CG.</p>
<p id=x430 class="phone s06"><cite>leonardr:</cite> it's nice to see that spec used and updated. One big thing: not using jsonld, should be investigated properly.</p>
<p id=x432 class="phone s22"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> you mentioned headers for accessibility. I wonder how to deal with content headings and annotations headings.</p>
<p id=x434 class="phone s11"><cite>laurent_:</cite> it must be think as &quot;petit poucet&quot;</p>
<p id=x437 class=irc><cite>&lt;leonardr&gt;</cite> @CharlesL - but then you'd violate the proper semantics of the documents.  It would be better to get WCAG APIs to add annots as a first class citizen</p>
<p id=x438 class="phone s23"><cite>ivan_:</cite> count me if you start working on the CG. specifics: your reaction to paging, we added that become the model is related to server. Later eventually, if you have worked with a server, it could surface again...</p>
<p id=x441 class=irc><cite>&lt;leonardr&gt;</cite> @wendyreid - was just a comment on the mapping of annots-&gt;H6. (implementation detail)</p>
<p id=x443 class="phone s23"><cite>ivan_:</cite> we had a discusion long time ago about properly finalize cfi spec. If this become serious, we might have pressure to do so.</p>
<p id=x444 class=summary>Other thing, I understand you make a selection of selectors, begin and end point might be a burden.</p>
<p id=x445 class=summary>We started years ago some work never ended (in annotation WG), a document on selectors only. There is a note there to be found about specifics selectors.</p>
<p id=x450 class="phone s10"><cite>gautier:</cite> Just to mention the structure and pagination of elements, it's important for me as a user<br>
<span id=x451>… main use case for annotation is usage outside of the book</span><br>
<span id=x452>… exporting is an essential function</span></p>
<p id=x454 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we have just a few time to wrap up.</p>
<p id=x455 class=summary>* On anotations, absolutely a good topic for the CG.</p>
<p id=x456 class=summary>* On CFI, it will have to be on a future agenda.</p>
<p id=x457 class=summary>for other topics that came in this F2F meeting, we have a lot to do.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#r01">WG agrees to explore publishing to ISO when we have a new version of EPUB, EPUB Reading Systems, or EPUB Accessibility</a></li>
<li><a href="#r02">WG agrees to publish the 3 recs as ISO standards under PAS process once the European Process is completed</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 221 (Fri Jul 21 14:01:30 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
