<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco &ndash; 07 June 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco</h1>
<h2>07 June 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2024Jun/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2024/06/07-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AvneeshSingh, CharlesL, dhall, gautierchomel, george, gpellegrino, Hadrien, ivan, Laurent, MasakazuKitahara, toshiaki, tzviya, wendyreid</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>Brady, RickJ, shinya</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>tzviya, wendy</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>gautierchomel</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
    <a href=""#topics">Possible Topics for TPAC</a>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2 id="topics">Possible Topics for TPAC</h2>
<section><p id=x004 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> Date: 2024-06-07</p>
<p id=x025 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/pm-wg/issues/5">w3c/<wbr>pm-wg#5</a></p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> TPAC is happening in September in California. What should we do there?</p>
<p id=x031 class=irc><cite>&lt;Zakim&gt;</cite> tzviya, you wanted to discuss workshop</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s02"><cite>tzviya:</cite> workshop, for example on preparation we've been doing for EAA.</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s02"><cite>tzviya:</cite> also we may want to improve group coordination.</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s03"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> related to EAA, ther's a new directive from DOJ that may affect publishers.</p>
<p id=x043 class=irc><cite>&lt;Zakim&gt;</cite> tzviya, you wanted to ask who plans to be at tpac</p>
<p id=x045 class=irc><cite>&lt;dhall&gt;</cite> Planning to be at TPAC...</p>
<p id=x046 class=irc><cite>&lt;LaurentLM&gt;</cite> remote</p>
<p id=x047 class=irc><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> It depends on agenda.</p>
<p id=x048 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> planning to be there</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s02"><cite>tzviya:</cite> quick survey, looks like David, Charles, Wendy and Ivan will be in person.</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s04"><cite>dhall:</cite> if we have no consensus on webtoons / comics at that time, it may be an intersting topic.</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s05"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> another item I would like to put on the september agenda is shared anotations. We are implementing anotations in Thorium but wait for a consensus to add shareable exports. That's leverages the issue on locators.</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> because we'll be in california, we may invite hypothesis.</p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> on adminiustrative side there as been a number of minor editions. Some will request merge.</p>
<p id=x064 class=irc><cite>&lt;Zakim&gt;</cite> tzviya, you wanted to annotate</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s02"><cite>tzviya:</cite> we can discuss locators and annotations, but maybe this is not so much about standard, instead it's about reading system business cases. Are they willing to implement something? As solutions exists, we should try to understand why they are few used.</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s07"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> regarding annotations, in the readium context we want to embed annotations in a package to share offline or without authentication. So less complex than needs of protocoles, etc. Readium is 80+ apps now.</p>
<p id=x069 class="phone s07"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I made a proposal related to comic / webtoons. I'll probably add context documentation. I know it's a difficult topic but it needs to be addressed.</p>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;Zakim&gt;</cite> wendyreid, you wanted to talk about changes to the annotations business case</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> before retail reading and education reading contexts where opposed, but that changed in the last years. At Kobo we see reader driven energy on the topic of being capable of sharing annotations. It's also a topic for social medias. We've moved from the exclusively academic / scholar context.</p>
<p id=x073 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> it's time to have this discussion again.</p>
<p id=x077 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we have talked about TTS and Reader mode before (in the FxL Accessibility TF). It may be a good subject too.</p>
<p id=x079 class="phone s07"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I worked on the topic of voice selection in the last months. There's a lot of work needing to be sliced. I'm happy to share that work now and in September.</p>
<p id=x081 class="phone s03"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> with the explosion of AI, it became a hot topic for publishers. Maybe we want to discuss that too.</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s02"><cite>tzviya:</cite> It's interesting, but may not be part of our maintenance group charter.</p>
<p id=x085 class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> Voice selection:</p>
<p id=x086 class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> - Best practices for voice selection in reading apps: <a href="https://github.com/HadrienGardeur/read-aloud-best-practices/blob/main/voice-selection.md">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>HadrienGardeur/<wbr>read-aloud-best-practices/<wbr>blob/<wbr>main/<wbr>voice-selection.md</a></p>
<p id=x087 class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> - Known-issues in browsers: <a href="https://github.com/users/HadrienGardeur/projects/2/views/1">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>users/<wbr>HadrienGardeur/<wbr>projects/<wbr>2/<wbr>views/<wbr>1</a></p>
<p id=x088 class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> - Recommended voices on the Web: <a href="https://github.com/HadrienGardeur/web-speech-recommended-voices">HadrienGardeur/<wbr>web-speech-recommended-voices</a></p>
<p id=x089 class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> - Demo for recommended voices: <a href="https://hadriengardeur.github.io/web-speech-recommended-voices/demo/">https://<wbr>hadriengardeur.github.io/<wbr>web-speech-recommended-voices/<wbr>demo/</a></p>
<p id=x092 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> all security things are also to be considered, like simply signing a book digitally. It's related to AI, we may want to adress it. We are silent on it currently and may want to address the topic.</p>
<p id=x093 class="phone s08"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> how about community group and business group, are they planning to meet at TPAC?</p>
<p id=x094 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> i don't know, but they will probably want to join our workshops.</p>
<p id=x096 class="phone s02"><cite>tzviya:</cite> dealing with time zone will not be easy.</p>
<p id=x101 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> we are the publishing maintenance working group which is not only epub. What about discussing audiobooks and publication manifest?</p>
<p id=x103 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> shared anotations, TTS, TdM, Signing. Any conversation should be format agnostic.</p>
<p id=x104 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> in Canada we have a grant for NNELS to write a guideline for publishers about commercial audiobooks accessibility.</p>
<p id=x109 class="phone s02"><cite>tzviya:</cite> I'm participating to discussion about workflow identifiers. ISBN are usefull but we may be needing workflow identifiers. It may be interesting to discuss if there are usecases.</p>
<p id=x111 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> with my W3C hat, the charter put's new identifiers out of scope.</p>
<p id=x112 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> a lot of topics now. Some have connections with others WG. Great point with TPAC is that we can meet others groups in join meetings.</p>
<p id=x117 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we have time for more topics</p>
<p id=x118 class="phone s09"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> we may want to filter so many topics.</p>
<p id=x121 class="phone s03"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> TPAC is a great place for brainstorm / socials too.</p>
<p id=x122 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> thanks! Remember the issue : <a href="https://github.com/w3c/pm-wg/issues/5">w3c/<wbr>pm-wg#5</a></p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 221 (Fri Jul 21 14:01:30 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
