<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco &ndash; 04 October 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco</h1>
<h2>04 October 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2024Oct/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2024/10/04-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AvneeshSingh, dhall, George, gpellegrino, Hadrien, ikkwong, ivan,  LaurentLM, marisa, MasakazuKitahara, rickj, shiestyle, toshiakikoike, wendyreid</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>matt</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>wendy</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>rickj, wendyreid</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a9bb">republishing EPUB 3.3</a></li>
<li><a href="#7150">New Charter</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=f35a class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> Date: 2024-10-04</p>
<p id=6e04 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/35125/tpac202409/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2002/<wbr>09/<wbr>wbs/<wbr>35125/<wbr>tpac202409/</a></p>
<p id=d8c6 class="phone s01"><cite>Wendy:</cite> reminder to take the TPAC survey</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=a9bb>republishing EPUB 3.3</h3>
<p id=b5de class="phone s01"><cite>Wendy:</cite> need to republish before next work so we have a 'clean slate'</p>
<p id=5627 class="phone s02"><cite>Ivan:</cite> Matt has prepared editorial version<br>
<span id=6df6>… other changes are prepared, awaiting approval, and would replace the existing</span><br>
<span id=b1eb>… absent comments or objections, we would then republish</span><br>
<span id=71c1>… open question about notifying AC about this change</span><br>
<span id=2b58>… need a formal resolution from WG to do this</span></p>
<p id=da33 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> Proposed: Republish EPUB 3.3, EPUB Reading Systems 3.3, and EPUB Accessibility 1.1 as Candidate Amendments</p>
<p id=70f5 class=irc><cite>&lt;George&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=70f6 class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=70f7 class=irc><cite>&lt;rickj&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=b0f5 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=b0f6 class=irc><cite>&lt;dhall&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=f0f5 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=30f5 class=irc><cite>&lt;ikkwong&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=30f6 class=irc><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=f0f6 class=irc><cite>&lt;toshiakikoike&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2984 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> Republish EPUB 3.3, EPUB Reading Systems 3.3, and EPUB Accessibility 1.1 as Candidate Amendments</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=7150>New Charter</h3>
<p id=8ff6 class="phone s03"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> next topic: new charter<br>
<span id=9ebf>… Ivan working on the contents of the new charter, to represent the discussion from TPAC</span></p>
<p id=9119 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/publ-maintenance-wg-charter/pull/20">PR for new charter</a></p>
<p id=4413 class="phone s04"><cite>rickj:</cite> I could not remember if part of the new charter discussion and working group is the maintenance of EPUBCheck?<br>
<span id=0ae7>… where does that live now?</span></p>
<p id=ff10 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> It's not the responsibility of the WG, we have a formal liaison relationship with the maintainer<br>
<span id=bd7d>… it's not on our charter, and it cannot be</span><br>
<span id=869c>… we did not develop it</span></p>
<p id=92fa class="phone s05"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> EPUBCheck not a part of WG</p>
<p id=14df class="phone s05"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> A little history, we proposed to the former CEO of W3C, why EPUBCheck is not part of PWG because the entire publishing industry depends on EPUBCheck<br>
<span id=f9b7>… he said that the HTML validator is maintained by W3C, CSS, etc</span><br>
<span id=7def>… why not EPUB's</span><br>
<span id=bfe1>… do we possibly need to discuss this with the new CEO</span><br>
<span id=1d29>… if the WG needs to maintain it</span></p>
<p id=85b1 class="phone s02"><cite>Ivan:</cite> any software development at W3C requires resources, which are not available<br>
<span id=b810>… discussion in past with members considered as creating competition</span><br>
<span id=5e54>… talk to Ralph and get advice before talking with Seth</span></p>
<p id=916c class="phone s05"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> steering committee needs to appoint a new liaison with EPUBCheck</p>
<p id=94ff class="phone s02"><cite>Ivan:</cite> WG also has formal liaison</p>
<p id=5e73 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> <a href="https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/w3c/publ-maintenance-wg-charter/pull/20.html#scope">Current new version</a></p>
<p id=f730 class="phone s02"><cite>Ivan:</cite> essential part of new spec is the scope<br>
<span id=fcc7>… two blocks of new features we might want to look at</span><br>
<span id=1e19>… reminder of current charter limitations</span><br>
<span id=dec4>… discussions from TPAC: webtoons issue (scrolled comics)</span><br>
<span id=2ed9>… annotations issue to define a standard (referencing Readium work)</span><br>
<span id=6335>… questions about a11y issues with annotations</span><br>
<span id=cf10>… 3rd thing: (from breakout meeting) around fxl and spreads</span><br>
<span id=2b53>… last item: if web assembly files are allowed in EPUB</span><br>
<span id=8b7c>… unsure if any a11y changes should be included.  Please give comments</span><br>
<span id=cd1f>… changes could be done by candidate editions, not working draft, pr, cr route</span><br>
<span id=733b>… another block are things we know are subjects of discussions, and may in the future be in final rec</span><br>
<span id=a077>… questions about including or not.  Do we commit to producing a recommendation here</span><br>
<span id=64d4>… xhtml/html question...</span><br>
<span id=e7fc>… general a11y issues of graphic novels in general</span></p>
<p id=70c5 class="phone s06"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> annotations will be in next release of Thorium<br>
<span id=28c8>… discussion around anchoring back to text</span></p>
<p id=b9e3 class=summary>propose to add to list: flow, ability to mix publications<br>
<span id=0843>… with spreads problem is not just RS, but also how content is authored</span><br>
<span id=683a>… manga a11y etc. are issues</span></p>
<p id=0c13 class="phone s07"><cite>George:</cite> 3 things:  multiple renditions.  Interesting way to address fxl issues by providing an alternative format in the packaged publication</p>
<p id=7169 class=irc><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> I think we should incubate on simplifying the mechanism of multiple rendations</p>
<p id=a4cf class="phone s02"><cite>Ivan:</cite> multiple renditions was part of 3.2, and wg decided to put it into a note as there were no implementations.  Core doc gives the hooks to do it, but with no implementations cannot pub into standard</p>
<p id=238e class="phone s07"><cite>George:</cite> other 2 items: landscape in Europe with EAA (and US with Title 2) imposing more a11y requirements, suggests we have accessible implementations for the required</p>
<p id=2dea class="phone s02"><cite>Ivan:</cite> unsure how to do that.  testing phase was feature by feature.  lots of work to revisit<br>
<span id=4ecf>… would need similar tests to test a11y, which would require 2 implementations for each feature</span><br>
<span id=8e54>… could be a wg issue, but needs input from task force</span></p>
<p id=6fe7 class="phone s07"><cite>George:</cite> some features are 'more tricky' than others.  need to identify top issues and test for them</p>
<p id=e011 class="phone s03"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> need to consider which things we want to do that stay in charter and which push us out<br>
<span id=3ea8>… test suite for EPUB now tests RS rendering, not a11y</span><br>
<span id=13a3>… testing RS for a11y means we are testing WCAG</span></p>
<p id=6e28 class="phone s08"><cite>dhall:</cite> mention that fxl is not clearly defined in the spec (comment at TPAC from Brady)<br>
<span id=bdd3>… distinction between webtoons and graphic novels</span><br>
<span id=8c93>… would be good to have clear definition of different types</span><br>
<span id=f986>… followup: what are the specific concerns, and what is missing?</span></p>
<p id=5454 class="phone s06"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> scrolling widely used, but with flow not commonly used<br>
<span id=be68>… multiple renditions:  approach was adopted as it was seen as compatible with existing spec</span><br>
<span id=1e22>… B&amp;N used it for specific case with newspapers and magazines</span></p>
<p id=6eec class="phone s05"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> trend is keeping incubation away from wg's<br>
<span id=56bd>… concerned about level of incubation that should be in the charter</span><br>
<span id=2217>… timeframe for finalizing new charter, with pressure coming from a11y legislation, and referencing WCAG 2.0/2.1/2.2</span><br>
<span id=1168>… how to validate what we are wanting to do with the business people so we know we are meeting the needs of the market</span></p>
<p id=ffff class="phone s02"><cite>Ivan:</cite> trying to keep additional incubations small<br>
<span id=025a>… wg allowed to think and discuss these</span><br>
<span id=8782>… may be affected by what happenes in the synchronized media group with things like SMIL</span><br>
<span id=8850>… by emphasizing the education market for interchangeable annotations market, need input from that market</span><br>
<span id=5746>… any other item should be justified by market need</span><br>
<span id=5892>… {reviewed the remainder of the charter}</span><br>
<span id=6cb2>… added optional item if web annotations needs separate doc or update of existing EPUB spec</span><br>
<span id=2bc8>… looking for consensus if this is the right way to move on.  Move to steering committee for comments</span><br>
<span id=4c7e>… and discussion</span><br>
<span id=ed41>… estimate that chartering work will go into early 2025</span></p>
<p id=071e class=summary><a href="https://github.com/w3c/publ-maintenance-wg-charter/pull/20">w3c/<wbr>publ-maintenance-wg-charter#20</a></p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#2984">Republish EPUB 3.3, EPUB Reading Systems 3.3, and EPUB Accessibility 1.1 as Candidate Amendments</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 237 (Fri Oct  4 02:31:45 2024 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
