<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco &ndash; 05 January 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco</h1>
<h2>05 January 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2024Jan/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2024/01/05-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AvneeshSingh, brady, dhall, duga, gautierchomel, george, ivan, JamesY, leonardr, shiestyle, toshiakikoike, tzviya, wendyreid</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>wendy</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>gautierchomel</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<h3>TDM Protocol reference in EPUB</h3>
<section><p id=x005 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> Date: 2024-01-05</p>
<p id=x023 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/tdm-reservation-protocol/issues/33">w3c/<wbr>tdm-reservation-protocol#33</a></p>
<p id=x024 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> <a href="https://w3c.github.io/tdm-reservation-protocol/spec/tdmrep-epub.html#sec-epub">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>tdm-reservation-protocol/<wbr>spec/<wbr>tdmrep-epub.html#sec-epub</a></p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> there's a proposal to have tdm in EPUB files.</p>
<p id=x026 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> guest+ James_Yanchak</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s02"><cite>James_Yanchak:</cite> tdm working group has covered many formats, EPUB is the final primory format to deal with. Do we do it a book level, file level? File level is easy as it's HTML, book levl would be more accurate, but it's adding a namespace in the OPF.</p>
<p id=x030 class=irc><cite>&lt;Zakim&gt;</cite> tzviya, you wanted to ask if this for rdm or ai or both</p>
<p id=x031 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> This is how it would look side on the EPUB side:</p>
<pre>
&lt;meta property=&quot;tdm:reservation&quot;&gt;1&lt;/meta&gt;
&lt;meta property=&quot;tdm:policy&quot;&gt;<a href="https://provider.com/policies/policy.json">https://provider.com/policies/policy.json</a>&lt;/meta&gt;
</pre>
<p id=x034 class="phone s03"><cite>tzviya:</cite> what's he urgency?</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>James_Yanchak:</cite> it's related to the EU directive. More and more complains appears about files used for AI training. So it's important now.</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s04"><cite>duga:</cite> lot of different groups are working of the subject, what are the interactions?</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s02"><cite>James_Yanchak:</cite> I would say we are focusing about publishing in the EU, I hope the other groups will follow us when it comes to EPUB.</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s02"><cite>James_Yanchak:</cite> the main question, is about can we add a namespace? It causes EPUBs to be invalids. Original TDM is adding a namespace. But we can have a Prefix without adding a namespace (like DC:.</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s05"><cite>leonardr:</cite> I represent C2PA wich also work on the subject. C2PA supports EPUB. Regarding others industries (images, videos, audios), are not going the way to add something to the file. Also to know, many countries are working on legislations, the paysage is changing.</p>
<p id=x050 class=irc><cite>&lt;leonardr&gt;</cite> EPUB support in C2PA - <a href="https://c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/1.4/specs/C2PA_Specification.html#_embedding_manifests_into_zip_based_formats">https://<wbr>c2pa.org/<wbr>specifications/<wbr>specifications/<wbr>1.4/<wbr>specs/<wbr>C2PA_Specification.html#_embedding_manifests_into_zip_based_formats</a></p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> back to the original question, prefix mecanism on the package document is easy because we have nothing to do. The question is do we need to add something to spec but it's not urgent.</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s03"><cite>tzviya:</cite> the question is would RS support one or another method. What will happen at the RS level? Can they process this information?</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> reatilers and distributors will be looking at this information. OPF level looks the easier method to process this information. On the retail side, contracts are also playing a role, we won't do anything without a previous discussion with publishers.</p>
<p id=x063 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> in the standards we do not define what RS may should or must do with the metadatas. So we don't have to change anything in the standard.</p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> if you choose the HTML level, you have to also consider media resources.</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s07"><cite>dhall:</cite> there could be implications for what RS are allowed to do with the content. Specifically we may have to prevent usages depending on the specification of the restriction.</p>
<p id=x074 class="phone s04"><cite>duga:</cite> we don't have any control of what the TDM group doesthis sounds like managing digital rights. It sounds like DRM to me.</p>
<p id=x076 class="phone s05"><cite>leonardr:</cite> the line is fine, true. part of the issue is we are not speaking about copy rights. We are responding to legislations, trying to technicaly solve a legislative process. Still it's usage restriction.</p>
<p id=x078 class="phone s04"><cite>duga:</cite> we don't do DRM in the manifest, can we do TDM reservation?</p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> EPUB ecosystem is not only the file, we also have ONIX associated metadata. When we get to the content, that's where EPUB should be able to reflect the publisher request negociated in the contracts.</p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> prefix respects the charter. We only acknowledge that another group does something which is doable in EPUB.</p>
<p id=x087 class="phone s04"><cite>duga:</cite> looking at the third choice, maybe we can just say don't do anything to the manifest.</p>
<p id=x088 class="phone s04"><cite>duga:</cite> contracts and agrements with publishers don't allow you to break the law. the TDM implementation is over publishers arangements because it's legal.</p>
<p id=x093 class="phone s03"><cite>tzviya:</cite> it's important to meet with others people working on TDM. Maybe schedule a joint meeting.</p>
<p id=x094 class="phone s03"><cite>tzviya:</cite> there may be a strong interest from publishers to have TDM not separated.</p>
<p id=x096 class="phone s05"><cite>leonardr:</cite> C2PA does not modify the structure.</p>
<p id=x098 class="phone s05"><cite>leonardr:</cite> C2PA or TDM don't adress translation. There's a clear technical difference between translation or recomandation algorithms and training an AI.</p>
<p id=x103 class="phone s08"><cite>George:</cite> some possible accessibility implications. Cognitive disability may request a simplified version of the text than can be offered by an AI. A blind person may want a more accurate description generated by AI.</p>
<p id=x105 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> parts of our discussions are relevant to the TDM group. Our focus should be how we answer the TDM communtity.</p>
<p id=x109 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> to respond the TDM group we need to talk with them. In the current state we don't have nothing to do but we may want to add a note to the EPUB spec.</p>
<p id=x112 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> we don't take side about the best protocol, we are only responding to the question of the TDM group. Is it ok for us to have something added to the manifest or no?</p>
<p id=x117 class="phone s05"><cite>leonardr:</cite> I agree with the group remaining agnostic to technical solutions.</p>
<p id=x121 class="phone s03"><cite>tzviya:</cite> as we have questions and concerns about how solutions will be implemented we should discuss with the TDM group in one of their meetings</p>
<p id=x123 class="phone s04"><cite>duga:</cite> it looks like we see no problem with the prefix approach proposed by the TDM group</p>
<p id=x125 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> my proposal is to say the TDM group yes, it works.</p>
<p id=x127 class="phone s09"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> maybe the Community Group will want to adress the side discussions.</p>
<p id=x128 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we'll discuss with the TDM group to point our concerns and comment that the proposition is doable.</p>
<p id=x129 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> there's no blocker.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 221 (Fri Jul 21 14:01:30 2023 UTC).</address>


</body>
</html>
