<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco &ndash; 02 October 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/assets/logos/w3c-2025/svg/w3c-white.svg" alt=W3C border=0 height=60 width=60></a></p>

<h1>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco</h1>
<h2>02 October 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2025Oct/0002.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2025/10/02-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>CharlesL, Dale, duga, gautierchomel, George, gpellegrino, Hadrien, ivan, kimberg, MasakazuKitahara, mgarrish, shiestyle, sueneu, toshiakikoike, wendy, wendyreid</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>sueneu</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>duga, sueneu</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#0b25">topics for F2F</a></li>
<li><a href="#8491">name for scrolled comics rendition</a></li>
<li><a href="#5922">Play order for FXL</a></li>
<li><a href="#722b">AVIF files in the package</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=cc6e class=irc><cite>&lt;sueneu&gt;</cite> <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dlfG9mX2mWSGf_Q1LB67OJ_d2UD3IG_X1rfAOTjmb3g/edit?usp=sharing">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>1dlfG9mX2mWSGf_Q1LB67OJ_d2UD3IG_X1rfAOTjmb3g/<wbr>edit?usp=sharing</a></p>
<p id=f261 class="phone s01"><cite>sueneu:</cite> Here is the list of attendees we have so far<br>
<span id=fe15>… Shall we start with f2f topics?</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=0b25>topics for F2F</h3>
<p id=b866 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> I have a started list for discussion<br>
<span id=3f8b>… We need to decide on HTML and messaging</span><br>
<span id=72d1>… Image in spine would be good for f2f</span><br>
<span id=2d83>… Annotations tech will start to come up, I would feel better if the group could bless any direction</span><br>
<span id=43ae>… maybe with a short over of the annotations work</span><br>
<span id=103b>… Not sure about epub in ISO, is it time to discuss that again?</span></p>
<p id=607c class="phone s03"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> I was just on for the ISO topic, but ivan covered it<br>
<span id=757a>… it would be nice to stop referencing 3.0.1</span></p>
<p id=d26a class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1 to Hadrien</p>
<p id=9a10 class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I have opened a bunch of issues, mostly on rendition properties, that I think should be deprecated<br>
<span id=3dbd>… I would like that on the agenda</span></p>
<p id=236a class=irc><cite>&lt;sueneu&gt;</cite> +1 to Hadrien</p>
<p id=1865 class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> a lot of that is related to images in spine and continuously scrolled</p>
<p id=2257 class="phone s05"><cite>duga:</cite> we should probably have time for all the task forces and the topics they want to discuss</p>
<p id=1ebe class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> One more thing, in a different category<br>
<span id=8d39>… based on a chat about web publication manifest</span><br>
<span id=0a79>… is this work we want to take up? How/when/who/if</span><br>
<span id=8e39>… but it isn't an epub topic, so it should be separated from the rest</span></p>
<p id=1745 class="phone s01"><cite>sueneu:</cite> If the WPM isn't an epub topic, where does it go? Business group?</p>
<p id=c23e class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> No, we are chartered to cover it</p>
<p id=414c class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Laurent and I have discussed WPM as a breakout session<br>
<span id=beed>… so that is an option</span><br>
<span id=2bc6>… we also wanted to have a breakout on accessible comics</span><br>
<span id=8f9f>… and then maybe something on AI, but that is a bit vague</span></p>
<p id=99c1 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> The problem with a break out is remote participation, mgarrish and I won't be there, and are not available at all times</p>
<p id=91ce class="phone s01"><cite>sueneu:</cite> We will make a list and review next week<br>
<span id=0def>… Move on to bikeshed</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=8491>name for scrolled comics rendition</h3>
<p id=a9eb class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyle&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2791">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2791</a></p>
<p id=86da class="phone s01"><cite>sueneu:</cite> what to really call the new property</p>
<p id=c386 class="phone s01"><cite>sueneu:</cite> I made a table for a quick vote<br>
<span id=ad12>… everyone votes near 1st, 2nd, 3rd choice</span></p>
<p id=bd7f class="phone s01"><cite>sueneu:</cite> is this feasible?<br>
<span id=a87d>… there are a lot</span></p>
<p id=acb8 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Some have been thinned out</p>
<p id=7cfd class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> roll, scroll, some others are popular</p>
<p id=47d8 class="phone s05"><cite>duga:</cite> It's too many</p>
<p id=c2bd class=irc><cite>&lt;Dale&gt;</cite> <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FgC98D6O7T_lW_eb541jOKoAxP5XsKLoqtB7eQV6Lfo/edit?tab=t.0">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1FgC98D6O7T_lW_eb541jOKoAxP5XsKLoqtB7eQV6Lfo/<wbr>edit?tab=t.0</a></p>
<p id=2f59 class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Which list?</p>
<p id=631a class="phone s05"><cite>duga:</cite> The one in google docs</p>
<p id=0e1f class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> People are already voting in the doc</p>
<p id=948b class="phone s01"><cite>sueneu:</cite> I don't like tiled<br>
<span id=96c9>… A single tile is not complete</span></p>
<p id=6962 class="phone s05"><cite>duga:</cite> I do not like scroll or scrolled, since this is where we started</p>
<p id=5437 class=summary>@ack hadrien</p>
<p id=4481 class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I am opposed to vertical in the name, since we may want direction eventually</p>
<p id=af21 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Roll is emerging as the winner</p>
<p id=67ac class="phone s06"><cite>Dale:</cite> there seems to be energy against scroll<br>
<span id=147e>… the DOM uses scroll for movement in the document</span><br>
<span id=e332>… so I think we should stay with it</span></p>
<p id=ebc4 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Scroll completely misled me<br>
<span id=a0dc>… since we already use it, I am opposed</span></p>
<p id=6f21 class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> &gt; A scroll is a long, narrow piece of paper or parchment that is written or printed on and then rolled up for storage. A roll is a similar type of document that is made by rolling up several sheets of paper or parchment together.</p>
<p id=ebde class="phone s01"><cite>sueneu:</cite> should we vote between tile and roll?</p>
<p id=2d63 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> sure</p>
<p id=a6fb class=irc><cite>&lt;kimberg&gt;</cite> tiled actually has two -1s</p>
<p id=1b0c class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> &gt; The main difference between a scroll and a roll is the number of sheets that are used. A scroll is typically a single sheet of paper or parchment that has been written or printed on and then rolled up, while a roll is made up of multiple sheets that are attached together and then rolled up.</p>
<p id=b883 class=summary>can we get plus ones/minus ones for roll?</p>
<p id=afe4 class=irc><cite>&lt;gautierchomel&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=14ae class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1 for &quot;roll&quot;</p>
<p id=efe4 class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=efe5 class=irc><cite>&lt;toshiakikoike&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=f341 class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyle&gt;</cite> Proposed: &quot;roll&quot; for rendition:layout for scrolled comics</p>
<p id=efe7 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=6fe7 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=6fe8 class=irc><cite>&lt;duga&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=6fe9 class=irc><cite>&lt;sueneu&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=afe7 class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=efe8 class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2fe7 class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2fe8 class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyle&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=afe8 class=irc><cite>&lt;Dale&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=efe9 class=irc><cite>&lt;toshiakikoike&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=efea class=irc><cite>&lt;George&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=7de3 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> bikeshed?</p>
<p id=fd80 class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> is it a dish?</p>
<p id=e987 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> &quot;roll&quot; for rendition:layout for scrolled comics</p>
<p id=b5c9 class=summary>@ ivan</p>
<p id=144b class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> We have the term, does that mean the PR can be merged?</p>
<p id=9c34 class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> No, a large portion of the discussion is images in spine</p>
<p id=4c2d class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Leaving the PR open for months will be bad<br>
<span id=6029>… merging an incomplete PR is better than leaving it open with the document changing under it</span></p>
<p id=4723 class="phone s03"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> In this case, some of the changes are useful even if we back it out<br>
<span id=1a92>… but others would need to be pulled</span></p>
<p id=9f77 class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I can make the change, it is easy</p>
<p id=4a2c class="phone s01"><cite>sueneu:</cite> and mgarrish will take a look to see if it should be merged?</p>
<p id=3813 class="phone s03"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> Yeah, I have to look at it given my major PRs, it will need to be corrected to merge properly</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=5922>Play order for FXL</h3>
<p id=3b07 class=summary><a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2664#issuecomment-3334721336">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2664 (comment)</a></p>
<p id=c0f1 class="phone s01"><cite>sueneu:</cite> There was misunderstanding on it last time<br>
<span id=20da>… George, can you explain?</span></p>
<p id=1ba1 class="phone s07"><cite>George:</cite> We had a similar issue with DAISY 3 for determining order<br>
<span id=3fe6>… so there we added a sequence, so each item had a play order</span><br>
<span id=3d25>… so it is designed to provide a linear order for fixed layout</span></p>
<p id=af39 class="phone s08"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> We didn't understand where it would appear? Is it document level (each doc is ordered), or is it inside the document, so each item in document is ordered</p>
<p id=8859 class=summary>gpellegrino</p>
<p id=2f90 class="phone s07"><cite>George:</cite> I didn't get into the details</p>
<p id=b17e class="phone s09"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> I am not sure if this will work with current assistive technologies<br>
<span id=f1e8>… since it is already using the DOM order, and we won't be able to change that</span><br>
<span id=84f7>… so it is interesting, but we need to make sure it can work natively on the web</span></p>
<p id=dabc class="phone s10"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> We have a reading order inside a page, we are good. But if my reading order goes across pages then we have a problem<br>
<span id=4111>… to do it today requires a bunch of tricks</span><br>
<span id=b4d0>… This never happens on a web page - reading over is never across resources</span><br>
<span id=1ec8>… so I think we should set this aside and consider a solution that handles cross resource</span></p>
<p id=7e7a class="phone s03"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> We already have flowto, so not sure we need something for AT<br>
<span id=4d89>… but there is no &quot;flowacross&quot; where the reading order skips across pages</span><br>
<span id=87c3>… it will be very hard to get AT to skip around resources</span></p>
<p id=0bfd class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I think the biggest problem is the content can be spread over multiple resources<br>
<span id=faf2>… we have pages across spread, but it could be half a sentence in one spread, the other half in another</span><br>
<span id=6bfa>… I don't see how to solve this with html or aria</span><br>
<span id=aa94>… We would need something like smil, or another custom navigation structure on top</span></p>
<p id=3a23 class="phone s01"><cite>sueneu:</cite> So should we close this and open a new one?</p>
<p id=5101 class="phone s10"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> We already have several issues already about audio sync<br>
<span id=5198>… we have the same problem for TTS, FXL with AT, etc</span><br>
<span id=bfcf>… this becomes worse when we talk about [visual narratives]</span><br>
<span id=00d4>… we could move this to a discussion, and not have an issue open to keep the issues tracker size down</span><br>
<span id=fb7e>… I think we have an FXL meta issue on this, maybe point to that?</span></p>
<p id=dbe0 class="phone s01"><cite>sueneu:</cite> So should we close the issue and move it to a discussion?</p>
<p id=7e14 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Discussion where?</p>
<p id=ffff class="phone s10"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> Maybe the discussion feature in github?<br>
<span id=2c4b>… I just prefer that or something like it to have a discussion open in an issue tracker that is never closed</span></p>
<p id=febf class="phone s08"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> We discussed discussions last week, maybe we can use this as a test case<br>
<span id=3675>… we have a lot of these, it would be good to try the feature out</span></p>
<p id=3d6c class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> to move ahead - A. close it. B. wendyreid or someone looks into the feature and set it up C. we use it for this case</p>
<p id=50c1 class="phone s08"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> We have the feature, nothing to turn on</p>
<p id=cf43 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> gautierchomel says it isn't on</p>
<p id=ca95 class="phone s08"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Oh, maybe I can see it because I am a maintainer<br>
<span id=1dd3>… I will make sure to turn it on</span></p>
<p id=cedc class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> So after the minutes are up and the discussions are ready, we will close it with a pointer to the discussion</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=722b>AVIF files in the package</h3>
<p id=8802 class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyle&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2794">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2794</a></p>
<p id=6d66 class=summary><a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2794">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2794</a></p>
<p id=fe5b class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> A few years ago I added a similar issue about webp<br>
<span id=f7b2>… it is the fastest growing format</span><br>
<span id=db06>… widely used today</span><br>
<span id=2fbd>… images is a funny case, since we have a whitelist for them</span><br>
<span id=7d5a>… unlike other media types</span><br>
<span id=e9a2>… so it is a strong choice to add</span></p>
<p id=6a32 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> We have at least two implementations at this point (Thorium and Mac's Books)</p>
<p id=fc5c class=irc><cite>&lt;kimberg&gt;</cite> not sure offhand</p>
<p id=2741 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> so this is probably just an editing issue</p>
<p id=00b4 class="phone s11"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> In Japan many RSes don't support even webp<br>
<span id=7619>… so I think it is good to add avif</span></p>
<p id=8d80 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Let's do a formal proposal</p>
<p id=0459 class=summary>Proposed:Add AVIF to the EPUB package</p>
<p id=b0c7 class=irc><cite>&lt;sueneu&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=b40b class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> and I am happy to do the PR</p>
<p id=f0c7 class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyle&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=30c8 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=b0c8 class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=f0c8 class=irc><cite>&lt;toshiakikoike&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=70c8 class=irc><cite>&lt;duga&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=70c9 class=irc><cite>&lt;gautierchomel&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=70ca class=irc><cite>&lt;Dale&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=b0c9 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=b0ca class=irc><cite>&lt;MasakazuKitahara&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=b0cb class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=eda2 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> Add AVIF to the EPUB package</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#e987">&quot;roll&quot; for rendition:layout for scrolled comics</a></li>
<li><a href="#eda2">Add AVIF to the EPUB package</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 246 (Wed Oct  1 15:02:24 2025 UTC).</address>


</body>
</html>
