<!DOCTYPE html>
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<title>PMWG Accessibility TF â€“ 20 November 2025</title>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>
<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/assets/logos/w3c-2025/svg/w3c-white.svg" alt="W3C" border="0" height="60" width="60"></a></p>

<h1>Accessibility task force - PMWG </h1>
<h2>20 November 2025</h2>

<nav id="links">
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2025/11/20-pmwg-a11y-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id="prelims">
<div id="attendees">
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class="intro">
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AvneeshSingh, gautierchomel_, George, gpellegrino, mgarrish</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>AvneeshSingh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>gautierchomel_</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id="toc">
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#aedf">Next steps for extended descriptions use case document.</a></li>
<li><a href="#c194">Other items which require attention of accessibility task force?</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id="meeting" class="meeting">
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id="aedf">Next steps for extended descriptions use case document.</h3>
<p id="8ba2" class="irc"><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/wiki/Standardizing-Extended-Descriptions:-User-Stories,-Testing-Results,-and-Current-Limitations">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>epub-specs/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Standardizing-Extended-Descriptions:-User-Stories,-Testing-Results,-and-Current-Limitations</a></p>
<p id="cd13" class="irc"><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/explainer-explainer/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>explainer-explainer/</a></p>
<p id="35de" class="phone s01"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> we had productive discussion with APA. They asked for an explainer. This is a link about what they call explainer. It is about defining the problem, testing existing solutions, explain why they do not work.  we should recommend solution.</p>
<p id="34ba" class="phone s02"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> I feel it is about restructuring what we already have.  Let's try.</p>
<p id="0361" class="phone s02"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> the proposal is similar to footnotes. The question is who have time to do this?</p>
<p id="16ae" class="phone s01"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> we propose a solution for everyone, not only assistive technology users, this is important.</p>
<p id="546f" class="phone s03"><cite>George:</cite> they noticed it is important for the web, so not aria dupb scope. At least that's not our first proposal.</p>
<p id="ffff" class="phone s04"><cite>gautierchomel_:</cite> I would like to do this, as a way to appropriate this topic, I have been an observer ulitmately. I can do that next week. So we can discuss in the next meeting.</p>
<p id="dbd0" class="phone s01"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> Where should this document sit, in PMWG repo? I'll ask chairs where the best we should have this document.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id="c194">Other items which require attention of accessibility task force?</h3>

<p id="2cfe" class="phone s03"><cite>George:</cite> my big question is around fixed layout.</p>
<p id="642f2" class="phone s01"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> I will connect and arrange a call with people who are in both FXL accessibility as well as in Accessibility task force and then we can figure out way forward.</p>
<p id="2c0b" class="phone s02"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> TPAC discussions were mostly about images in spine, we decided not to change anything. i.e. not allowing image in spine without fallback. That's a statut quo. Hadrien will propose a best practice document about using images in spine with fallback. The other point is to start work in pcg a11y tf about comic books accessibility. really a research project.</p>
<p id="4285" class="summary"><a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/discussions/2829">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>epub-specs/<wbr>discussions/<wbr>2829</a></p>
<p id="5566" class="phone s04"><cite>gautierchomel_:</cite> to me a big topic is about presenting reflow aside of fixed. I conceptualise that as parallele contents. Not sure where this standardisation belong, I would like to see it addressed by the accessibility task force.</p>
<p id="d436" class="phone s01"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> for comics, we should discuss it in the publishing community group task force. We need to collect examples and start thinking about it.</p>
<p id="5c80" class="phone s01"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> we've eared about projects ongoing in scandinavia, france, japan, number of them done in relation with EDRLab.</p>
<p id="6425" class="phone s01"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> about parallels contents, is it about SMIL?</p>
<p id="e0c5" class="phone s04"><cite>gautierchomel_:</cite> I see it wider, being able to consume one content in two forms in parrallel, there is syncronisation, but it should allow any content, video, audio, text, other version of a text, fxl, reflow, etc. An example is the poc done by Daniel for Japan, available in Thorium, a parrallel reading of Sign language video and text with highlights at the idea level, not word.</p>
<p id="c8f3" class="phone s01"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> SMIL is outdated anyway, but replacing SMIL in existing structure of EPUB 3 does not make much sense. Better to focus on new way of synchronizing in new publishing format.</p>
<p id="e0c0" class="phone s02"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> I see a need for fxl and reflow contents living aside. It is used by scholar publishers, but not standardised.</p>
<p id="ac76" class="phone s04"><cite>gautierchomel_:</cite> yes, there is a reality.  there are many use cases, one can wish to switch at document level, resource level, or consume both renditions side by side.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html">scribe.perl</a> version 248 (Mon Oct 27 20:04:16 2025 UTC).</address>

</body>