<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco &ndash; 05 June 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco</h1>
<h2>05 June 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2025Jun/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2025/06/05-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>CharlesL, duga, elizabeth_kraler, ivan, LaurentLM, MasakazuKitahara, mgarrish, rdeltour, shiestyle, sue-neu, toshiakikoike, wendyreid</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>Avneesh, Cristina, Gautier, Gregorio, Hadrien</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>sue-neu</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>wendyreid</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#2040">HTML Survey Approval</a></li>
<li><a href="#3523">Survey Distribution</a></li>
<li><a href="#7047">Horizontal Review Process</a></li>
<li><a href="#11af">TF Updates</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=2040>HTML Survey Approval</h3>
<p id=e95a class=summary><a href="https://github.com/w3c/pm-wg/pull/21">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>pm-wg/<wbr>pull/<wbr>21</a>, <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2715">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>epub-specs/<wbr>issues/<wbr>2715</a>
</p>
<p id=9d8b class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> I will share a link in chat for anyone who needs it</p>
<p id=879e class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> Has everyone had a chance to look at the survey in its current form?<br>
<span id=a66d>… any objections to it in its current form?</span></p>
<p id=605d class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> There are some pending comments, but no reactions to those, so we might be able to add them</p>
<p id=59d3 class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> Brady, you were saying about &quot;hoping to discover obstacles&quot;, any change?</p>
<p id=344b class="phone s03"><cite>duga:</cite> That was in response to your proposal<br>
<span id=7685>… I thought it was strange to hope to discover obstacles, I think we will, but we shouldn't hope for it</span></p>
<p id=c307 class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> I can commit it</p>
<p id=7488 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Let's do it</p>
<p id=5b5f class=summary>[some technical things in the background]</p>
<p id=bb72 class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> Can we look at the whole thing now</p>
<p id=0154 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Yes, we should have the text mostly done</p>
<p id=29a5 class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> Any objections to using this text for the survey?</p>
<p id=f6ab class="phone s03"><cite>duga:</cite> Same comment</p>
<p id=406c class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> We can take that bit out, I have no objection</p>
<p id=9abe class="phone s03"><cite>duga:</cite> I had a question 4, it might have disappeared</p>
<p id=2faf class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Add it as a change request</p>
<p id=f768 class="phone s03"><cite>duga:</cite> Will take that action item</p>
<p id=4c81 class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> Do we want to review it in real time or review for a week before moving ahead</p>
<p id=145d class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> I would like to raise an issue here</p>
<p id=8fff class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> We can deal with it now I think<br>
<span id=bcb7>… there are some new discussions on the issue list</span><br>
<span id=32b1>… raised by someone related to Sigil, the latest comments related to an experiment with XHTML converted to HTML, reading systems today had issues</span><br>
<span id=2051>… my reaction, of course there are issues, the RSs aren't build for this</span><br>
<span id=d323>… the question is whether if it's easy for reading systems to adapt to HTML or a major engineering problem</span><br>
<span id=02d6>… if we publish EPUB 3.4 with this change, RS will have to change</span></p>
<p id=b3c4 class="phone s04"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> I was going to respond, they may not realize that we need to go through W3C's process<br>
<span id=5379>… we aren't publishing this right away, it's a bit of a pointless exercise, we're still trying to establish this is something to do</span><br>
<span id=4a9f>… putting the cart in front of the horse</span></p>
<p id=55ce class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> I don't want to turn this into a discussion between him and me, if you could comment<br>
<span id=2c5d>… the reason I am asking, is it something we need to make clear in the survey?</span></p>
<p id=27e4 class="phone s05"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Just to comment on Ivan's question, reading systems will evolve, we know that many won't<br>
<span id=f20b>… there will be fragmentation, there will be RS stuck in XML</span><br>
<span id=06ee>… I was speaking with the people from Dolphin EasyReader, the kind of EPUB they accept is a pure translation of DAISY XML to EPUB using special tools.</span><br>
<span id=d55b>… no FXL, no interactivity</span><br>
<span id=f461>… anything not tied to simple EPUB doesn't work</span><br>
<span id=0755>… they use a subset of EPUB based on XML</span><br>
<span id=ffff>… they don't have a web engine</span></p>
<p id=c498 class="phone s05"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> I spoke to others, they could, but it would be difficult<br>
<span id=b8f8>… it's going to be a range for everyone, some will be easy, some hard</span><br>
<span id=d1ac>… we'll have to check many things</span><br>
<span id=ee9b>… even if we use a web engine</span><br>
<span id=b004>… we cannot say in our communications that RS must evolve, it's not quite that simple</span></p>
<p id=dc31 class="phone s03"><cite>duga:</cite> Sounds like EasyReader is going to have a lot of problems, I've tried this in the past without a webview, it's hard to recreate all of HTML/CSS<br>
<span id=ee01>… it's going to be a limited subset, you can't write something that works with the resources you have for an ereader</span><br>
<span id=8204>… there's two approaches you can take</span><br>
<span id=2bb4>… something like TTS, you parse the content and get the words out</span><br>
<span id=587f>… you use XML and get the works</span><br>
<span id=4c0c>… they are just throwing XML parser at it, in ingestion</span><br>
<span id=bbba>… arguably you just need to throw in an HTML parser</span><br>
<span id=2b60>… XML parsers are common, built into many platforms</span><br>
<span id=c457>… new HTML parser, are they out there, are they common</span><br>
<span id=7f9b>… if you have to write your own, that's challenging</span><br>
<span id=5cfa>… if there aren't packages out there to use</span><br>
<span id=cd95>… there is all this stuff out there for XML, may not be as much for HTML</span><br>
<span id=94f9>… I don't know how hard this will be</span><br>
<span id=1e91>… alternately one person pointed out they accept HTML, and they convert it to XML</span></p>
<p id=e02b class="phone s05"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> You've given me an idea<br>
<span id=2f67>… at the level of the RS, we could imagine for the future for when XHTML is not supported in the web engine</span><br>
<span id=9a24>… we could create a transform for SGML to HTML for the rendering engine</span></p>
<p id=b184 class="phone s03"><cite>duga:</cite> I don't know how other people do this<br>
<span id=52a2>… for google, it never makes it to the rendering engine as XHTML, it's HTML</span><br>
<span id=67b3>… it's already HTML at that point</span><br>
<span id=af10>… it's getting it through the rest of the system</span><br>
<span id=c969>… displaying it in the final viewport, not a problem</span><br>
<span id=a208>… aside from those with custom renderers</span><br>
<span id=426a>… it's getting it to the renderer</span></p>
<p id=5a3c class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> For the purposes of the survey, would someone like to write up an intro that explains this is not happening tomorrow</p>
<p id=91a9 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> I think it's a good idea</p>
<p id=9add class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> I can give it a shot</p>
<p id=5953 class="phone s03"><cite>duga:</cite> I thought the purpose of the survey was to get people to tell us this?</p>
<p id=10000 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Yes, but we are already getting comments like the one we are already getting, it might distract<br>
<span id=58b4>… just need to clarify that this is not happening right away, there is a series of changes that need to happen</span></p>
<p id=7c6a class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> I still think one purpose is to let people know this is happening and to give them a chance to contribute<br>
<span id=d658>… there will be more buy-in if people feel they had a hand in it</span><br>
<span id=8982>… having a line explaining this is the beginning of the process</span><br>
<span id=25d2>… we want feedback like we got from the Sigil folks, and the expertise</span><br>
<span id=4fd6>… we need testers!</span></p>
<p id=e4ed class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> I just need the final text so I can create the survey page</p>
<p id=2517 class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> I'll add the text, will need it reviewed</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=3523>Survey Distribution</h3>
<p id=d92f class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> On that, I hope I can get it running, it'll be a W3C survey to anyone with a valid email, not W3C account<br>
<span id=af9a>… the results may not be visible for everyone</span><br>
<span id=8904>… some WBS polls are restricted to Team-, Member-confidential, if it's not possible to make it public, we might have to do some copy-paste to share</span><br>
<span id=2cef>… how can we review the responses?</span></p>
<p id=f3e5 class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> Will we be sending links to this from emails to people we know, organizations?</p>
<p id=0813 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> The URL will go to everyone in the WG, request to spread it as far as we can<br>
<span id=754a>… mailing lists, etc</span><br>
<span id=8af1>… we might think about a blog post</span><br>
<span id=a70b>… Susan, you know the system for doing it, something short</span></p>
<p id=01ee class="phone s06"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> How can we prepare translated versions?</p>
<p id=035a class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Two possibilities, if you do a translation to japanese, I can do a separate WBS form, or we take the text and just put both for each question<br>
<span id=d84f>… how many translations do we have?</span></p>
<p id=09c3 class="phone s06"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> At least we need Japanese version, and Japanese answers<br>
<span id=36a2>… after translation, I will give the text to Ivan</span></p>
<p id=f1bc class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Do we want other translations?<br>
<span id=d5b6>… for other countries we said the standard is in English, but we could do Chinese</span></p>
<p id=4f37 class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> We talked at an earlier meeting about translations, we didn't want to get into the business of translating</p>
<p id=2c76 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I think we said we don't need to translate into European languages, though translations are harder for Japanese and Chinese</p>
<p id=e055 class=phone> …we can send the content of the survey to members from Asian countries</p>
<p id=6be9 class=phone> …and ask them to translate it if they wish, and to give us the answers translated back</p>
<p id=0e32 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> I agree, with the additional thing we need to do for China too<br>
<span id=68ee>… we should send it to someone on the W3C team to distribute</span></p>
<p id=10b3 class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> Wendy, are you able to reach out to them for that?</p>
<p id=d365 class="phone s07"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Yup!</p>
<p id=9592 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> I'll wait for the final text, I'll get the translation from Shinya, and I'll generate the WBS form, send it to the chairs, the chairs will distribute</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=7047>Horizontal Review Process</h3>
<p id=f17c class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> This is my regular plea for assistance, when it comes time for horizontal review we will be in trouble because getting the reviews done is a long process and waiting too long will be challenging<br>
<span id=0c34>… we should have people who take on the task of filling out and checking what is required for each process</span><br>
<span id=85e8>… sorting through what things apply to EPUB</span><br>
<span id=a5af>… I'm happy to take the internationalization one, but we need volunteers for the others</span></p>
<p id=9504 class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> I don't know what horizontal review means, what is the process</p>
<p id=5255 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> For i18n, accessibility, security, privacy, and TAG, they have to formally review the specification before it goes to candidate recommendation CR<br>
<span id=328c>… they mostly have questionnaires we need to fill out, they may log issues</span><br>
<span id=9bc4>… if it's not completed, we can't move forward in the process</span><br>
<span id=c8f3>… for example we have some issues tagged to get the i18n group's attention, like one I logged the other day</span><br>
<span id=cb80>… web accessibility review is a little different for us because we have a group for that</span><br>
<span id=8de0>… privacy and security is more challenging</span><br>
<span id=d15b>… we've done it before, but they groups are more active</span><br>
<span id=8617>… it's a good thing, they have experience in things we don't</span><br>
<span id=c874>… more secure or private environments</span></p>
<p id=9751 class="phone s03"><cite>duga:</cite> Question, last time we did this it was very difficult, but it was also the first time we'd ever done horizontal review for EPUB<br>
<span id=8de7>… would this time just be a diff?</span><br>
<span id=0886>… review the changes, or the whole spec</span></p>
<p id=c293 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Formal answer is its the whole spec, informal, we've already reviewed most of the spec, here is the new stuff<br>
<span id=49c1>… it will be easier this time</span><br>
<span id=b0b1>… but I know that the security people are looking at overhauling their process</span><br>
<span id=94f5>… there might be more work needed</span><br>
<span id=2db3>… the technical point of view, it's already been reviewed</span><br>
<span id=b2d4>… main area of comments will likely be annotations</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=11af>TF Updates</h3>
<p id=b1cf class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> Do we have any updates?<br>
<span id=a490>… annotations hasn't met yet</span><br>
<span id=5eb9>… comics?</span></p>
<p id=9c68 class="phone s06"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> Webtoons will report next week<br>
<span id=7d75>… annotations will start next week</span></p>
<p id=e912 class="phone s01"><cite>sue-neu:</cite> Next steps, I'll add a line about the process to the survey, Ivan will send for translation, then Ivan will make the survey, and we'll have a link soon</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 244 (Thu Feb 27 01:23:09 2025 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
