<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco &ndash; 18 September 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco</h1>
<h2>18 September 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2025Sep/0020.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2025/09/18-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AvneeshSingh, CharlesL, Dale, duga, George, gpellegrino, Hadrien, ikkwong, ivan, kimberg, LaurentLM, MasakazuKitahara, mgarrish, shiestyle, SueNeu, wendyreid</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>gautierchomel, toshiakikoike</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>wendy</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>duga, wendyreid</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#bca6">Survey Update</a></li>
<li><a href="#69fe">Issue 2526 - w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2526</a></li>
<li><a href="#ac24">Change EPUB Accessibility version to 1.2 - PR w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2790</a></li>
<li><a href="#79b9">Discuss bitmaps in spine - w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2792</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=5703 class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> 1 chocolate egg for Brady</p>
<p id=616d class="phone s01"><cite>ikkwong:</cite> Introduce Dan Kimberg from Google who will be the regular attendee</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=bca6>Survey Update</h3>
<p id=33c7 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Survey closed over the weekend<br>
<span id=bc38>… Good responses, but we are still reaching out to a few entities to see if they have feedback</span><br>
<span id=689e>… then we will summarize over the next few weeks</span><br>
<span id=257b>… We have almost 100, and we will share a member only link so we can see them</span></p>
<p id=4c13 class="phone s03"><cite>duga:</cite> Who will summarize?</p>
<p id=8b90 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Chairs</p>
<p id=dd04 class="phone s01"><cite>ikkwong:</cite> The link we share will be the anonymized version, the originals will be discarded as they have PII</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=69fe>Issue 2526 - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2526">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2526</a></h3>
<p id=5779 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> a11y task for has some issues for us<br>
<span id=8d3c>… in 1.1 we dropped summary to recommendation, so we are getting ISO to make summary 1.0 optional</span><br>
<span id=86d9>… this change is just doing the same thing for the w3c version</span><br>
<span id=398e>… I just want to make sure we have agreement before releasing the errata</span></p>
<p id=72fa class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> Proposed: Update EPUB Accessibility 1.0 to align with EPUB Accessibility 1.1, close issue 2526.</p>
<p id=6f96 class=irc><cite>&lt;George&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=af96 class=irc><cite>&lt;mgarrish&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=ef96 class=irc><cite>&lt;SueNeu&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=ef97 class=irc><cite>&lt;MasakazuKitahara&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2f96 class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyle&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2f97 class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=6f97 class=irc><cite>&lt;duga&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2f98 class=irc><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2f99 class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=6f98 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=ef98 class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=eaf6 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Please vote</p>
<p id=af97 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2f9a class=irc><cite>&lt;Dale&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=97ac class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> Update EPUB Accessibility 1.0 to align with EPUB Accessibility 1.1, close issue 2526.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=ac24>Change EPUB Accessibility version to 1.2 - PR <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/pull/2790">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2790</a></h3>
<p id=498e class="phone s04"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> We weren't sure if we needed to update the version number (have to fiddle with all refs)<br>
<span id=fd7f>… but then we made some changes, and we need it for this change, so it makes sense to update to 1.2 now</span></p>
<p id=060b class="phone s05"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> I added a comment about EU that is currently referencing 1.1<br>
<span id=3d45>… But I just checked with them and it looks ok, so no red flag</span></p>
<p id=11db class="phone s01"><cite>ivan:</cite> We are increasing the version for 2 documents, right? So we have to update short names, etc, for both of them</p>
<p id=95c3 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> 2 documents?</p>
<p id=c0f0 class="phone s04"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> Yeah, there is also the techniques document</p>
<p id=25ab class="phone s01"><cite>ivan:</cite> Can we forget 1.1.1?</p>
<p id=b796 class="phone s06"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> We can forget 1.1.1. We wanted either 1.2 or 1.1.1, we decided on 1.2</p>
<p id=cce6 class="phone s04"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> Do you mean just add this to the change log?</p>
<p id=98f6 class="phone s01"><cite>ivan:</cite> No, I mean in the generated history. Should it start with 1.1.1 or 1.2?</p>
<p id=3f65 class="phone s04"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> No we need the history since it is part of the change</p>
<p id=ad45 class="phone s01"><cite>ivan:</cite> So we need to change from 1.1.1, and I need to tell the webmasters this, so it must be in the resolution</p>
<p id=9ad1 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> Proposed: Change the version number of EPUB Accessibility and EPUB Accessibility Techniques 1.1.1 to 1.2, with new shortnames epub-a11y-12 and epub-a11y-tech-12, and the publication history listing 1.1.1 as the previous version. Publish a FPWD for both.</p>
<p id=6fb2 class=irc><cite>&lt;mgarrish&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=efb2 class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=afb2 class=irc><cite>&lt;duga&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2fb2 class=irc><cite>&lt;George&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2fb3 class=irc><cite>&lt;SueNeu&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=afb3 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=efb3 class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyle&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2fb4 class=irc><cite>&lt;MasakazuKitahara&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2fb5 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2fb6 class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=afb4 class=irc><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=afb5 class=irc><cite>&lt;Dale&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=c0ad class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> Change the version number of EPUB Accessibility and EPUB Accessibility Techniques 1.1.1 to 1.2, with new shortnames epub-a11y-12 and epub-a11y-tech-12, and the publication history listing 1.1.1 as the previous version. Publish a FPWD for both.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=79b9>Discuss bitmaps in spine - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2792">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2792</a></h3>
<p id=259f class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I don't think we will resolve this today, but we need to start the discussion now</p>
<p id=4285 class="phone s07"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> When we look at comics, the vast majority use bitmaps<br>
<span id=b352>… by which I mean 1 image per page</span><br>
<span id=a0df>… very simple xhtml, no alt text</span><br>
<span id=102e>… We have seen images in spine with fallback to html, or vice versa (fallbacks to images)</span><br>
<span id=e390>… This is largely for performance</span><br>
<span id=531e>… custom comics readers are often optimized for images</span><br>
<span id=f6a1>… Those reading systems try to guess what is a comic</span><br>
<span id=f7d6>… While discussing continuous scroll we want those in the xhtml, which makes things more complicated</span><br>
<span id=4d74>… But that isn't what authors make, they just want bitmaps</span><br>
<span id=d752>… the xhtml is just an added step</span><br>
<span id=4322>… There are a few ways to handle that, that is the topic for today</span></p>
<p id=ec82 class="phone s08"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> Japan has a huge comic marketplace<br>
<span id=32e9>… Many readers just extract images from the epub, and they never display the xhtml</span><br>
<span id=aaea>… So even if we added text to those comics, the readers would skip it</span><br>
<span id=7a14>… So this isn't really for a11y in Japan</span><br>
<span id=5182>… so if we focus on Manga and comics, this would simplify things</span></p>
<p id=48cd class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> We talked recently about fallbacks, but it seems that fallbacks weren't meant for this<br>
<span id=4265>… it was to fix missing features</span><br>
<span id=7461>… This seems more like an alternative, maybe we should have a better way of specifying alternatives</span><br>
<span id=4ee2>… Especially one with a way to indicate what the alternative is for</span></p>
<p id=c08b class="phone s05"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> I agree<br>
<span id=2aa8>… I think introducing this feature as it is may create issues on horizontal review</span><br>
<span id=34df>… I also don't think fallbacks are a solution</span><br>
<span id=3830>… we need a method that meets the exit criteria</span><br>
<span id=51a5>… we all agree that descriptions is not a good solution for comics, but it is what we have right now</span></p>
<p id=e95b class="phone s03"><cite>duga:</cite> I don't know if its true that fallbacks were never designed for alternatives, there was a concept of it at the time<br>
<span id=942f>… but there wasn't clarity, it was a possible use, but we could find a better option than fallbacks for this</span><br>
<span id=f9b9>… I wanted to ask what the explicit solution being propose for this solution, images in spine, with xhtml as a fallback, does the xhtml have the image or just text that says &quot;sorry!&quot;</span></p>
<p id=28d4 class="phone s07"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> The reality is we are not just allowed to put images in spine with no fallbacks<br>
<span id=974c>… so you need a fallback for compliance, and many do that now</span><br>
<span id=3d4f>… or wrap in svg, etc</span><br>
<span id=ae58>… I don't think the spec has to say anything about what is in the fallback</span><br>
<span id=94bd>… I don't think can write strong language about what should be in the fallback</span><br>
<span id=8c2c>… e.g. for continuous scroll, we might want a single document fallback, but we can't do that now</span><br>
<span id=7207>… Comics creators and viewers would like to not bother</span><br>
<span id=06f8>… alternatives vs fallbacks might not want to be in this discussion</span><br>
<span id=4816>… there are a lot of edge cases for alternatives, like one to many, atc</span><br>
<span id=772b>… I think alternatives should be raised in a new issue if we want to have that discussion</span></p>
<p id=7950 class="phone s04"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> Fallbacks aren't perfect, like having to repeat the same document multiple times<br>
<span id=7df9>… we almost need parallel spines. Similar to collections</span><br>
<span id=d52e>… I don't know what the ideal is</span><br>
<span id=4ae9>… The inaccessible content I don't understand - you can always do that</span><br>
<span id=2b2e>… just so long as it is possible then we are good</span></p>
<p id=a3e3 class="phone s01"><cite>ivan:</cite> We have no problem with svg in spine, since there is a method for adding a11y info<br>
<span id=e8ef>… but there are bitmap formats that allow adding alternative text the same way SVG does</span><br>
<span id=8408>… e.g. XMP</span><br>
<span id=bdf2>… I don't know how good the support is for this, but on paper it works</span></p>
<p id=52e8 class="phone s07"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> That is a possibility, or we can add data to the OPF via refines<br>
<span id=57f3>… We might want this for other things like dimensions</span><br>
<span id=cb4c>… SVG isn't something comic authors want to work with</span><br>
<span id=0a8c>… Not a common output format for comics</span><br>
<span id=33c5>… Accessible comments won't really be solved with alternatives</span><br>
<span id=b159>… to really do it we need image fragments with text, audio, taactice, et</span><br>
<span id=c54f>… We have recently made a proposal about this</span><br>
<span id=ffff>… but this will take a lot of time and effort</span></p>
<p id=0d95 class="phone s09"><cite>George:</cite> I don't think we will just make comics accessible<br>
<span id=5993>… I wonder if metadata in the OPF would say this is not accessible, or if an accessible version exists a way to point at it</span><br>
<span id=e411>… I don't think these will ever be merged (there will be 2 versions of the comic)</span></p>
<p id=d8b4 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> We can't reduce a11y to alt text, that is just one affordance<br>
<span id=771b>… Alt text for a comic can be huge, so it can't easily go in the spine</span><br>
<span id=5fe8>… we have a challenge as we are limited in certain ways about how to add things to a package</span></p>
<p id=45c4 class="phone s10"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> I hear you about alt text, but if we just allowed it wouldn't we be 90% of the way there?<br>
<span id=8dfb>… [breaking up]</span><br>
<span id=25fc>… I think as a stopgap the alt text and image size could be a short term win, and work on other solutions in parallel (over years)</span></p>
<p id=b2c8 class="phone s11"><cite>SueNeu:</cite> Q about image size in spine<br>
<span id=2c13>… How does that play into multiple screen sizes or orientations?</span><br>
<span id=7aa2>… is this percent or em or pixels?</span></p>
<p id=e39b class="phone s07"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I don't think this is any impact. Same as having images in the xhtml</p>
<p id=a045 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1 to Dale</p>
<p id=fabc class="phone s12"><cite>Dale:</cite> In web design there is a lot of effort in separating structure from presentation<br>
<span id=ae91>… I view the spine as structure, would adding this to the spine blur that line?</span><br>
<span id=5250>… Should we consider if there is a more elegant way to do that?</span></p>
<p id=35d7 class="phone s06"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> First, as gpellegrino said, we need to pass horizontal review<br>
<span id=0b93>… So there has to be a way to inject accessible data</span><br>
<span id=e0bd>… as to structure, we already have other ways of adding things to the package, but in this case the data should be in the manifest, not the spine</span></p>
<p id=e799 class="phone s01"><cite>ivan:</cite> On the size issue, any lib can extract this from the image itself</p>
<p id=b6a5 class="phone s04"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> We experimented with dimensions in the metadata, but in the end we dumped that<br>
<span id=2525>… Not sure why we want to reopen that door. It didn't work the first time</span></p>
<p id=1a17 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> You can extract from the images, but we used to have issues where if the viewport size was different across images then only the first was taken<br>
<span id=f244>… but this may have been a performance issue</span><br>
<span id=9535>… And yes, you can extract from the file, but it means you have to have it first</span></p>
<p id=65ae class=irc><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> +1 size information prevents reading file for this information.</p>
<p id=66ba class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> So there may be some validity to having it in the spine</p>
<p id=f66e class="phone s12"><cite>Dale:</cite> Following on SueNeu, if we grab info out of the image file it is pixel<br>
<span id=4029>… For instance, my image may be larger for zooming reasons, and then it will be made smaller for display</span><br>
<span id=3ebd>… from a design point of view, given just one size is very limiting</span><br>
<span id=8611>… This goes back to telling a story, what can designers/authors do</span><br>
<span id=7a6b>… I don't want to lose the viewport from the creation side</span></p>
<p id=b440 class="phone s07"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I just want to point out, we removed dimension from OPF, but it is currently forced in every xhtml page<br>
<span id=657b>… That is a pain today</span><br>
<span id=ee88>… Having the data in the manifest helps with streaming</span><br>
<span id=9726>… , but they problem when it is in the opf is when it is wrong</span><br>
<span id=d2d2>… So most implementations extract the data themselves, including the size info</span><br>
<span id=b49d>… and then the epub is discarded</span></p>
<p id=bd36 class="phone s03"><cite>duga:</cite> I'm just echoing Hadrien, the issue with putting it in the spine, it might be wrong, reading systems won't know what to do when it is wrong, who should you trust?<br>
<span id=00f6>… trust the spine, the xhtml, the image itself?</span></p>
<p id=6294 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Good discussion, I will open an alternatives discussion</p>
<p id=ac9c class="phone s01"><cite>ivan:</cite> To move forward, I would like to see a more detailed proposal<br>
<span id=8bad>… doesn't have to be a full PR, but I would like to understand the exact changes we are considering</span></p>
<p id=4e4d class="phone s07"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Would you like me to keep the same PR, or another, or just a summary?<br>
<span id=e077>… It sounds like people may be more open to images with no fallback, but I don't know what that looks like</span><br>
<span id=ef99>… for instance xmp, etc</span></p>
<p id=10000 class="phone s01"><cite>ivan:</cite> Maybe just a rightup with these are the possibilities. Really just a collection of summaries so we can understand what the options are<br>
<span id=c3af>… I won't be on the next call, but in two weeks I will have that summary. And maybe we can bikeshed on naming more</span></p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#97ac">Update EPUB Accessibility 1.0 to align with EPUB Accessibility 1.1, close issue 2526.</a></li>
<li><a href="#c0ad">Change the version number of EPUB Accessibility and EPUB Accessibility Techniques 1.1.1 to 1.2, with new shortnames epub-a11y-12 and epub-a11y-tech-12, and the publication history listing 1.1.1 as the previous version. Publish a FPWD for both.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 244 (Thu Feb 27 01:23:09 2025 UTC).</address>


</body>
</html>
