<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco &ndash; 20 March 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco</h1>
<h2>20 March 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2025Mar/0020.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2025/03/20-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AvneeshSingh, CharlesL, Dale_Rogers, dhall, duga, George, gpellegrino, Hadrien, ikkwong, Laura_Driussi, LaurentLM, MasakazuKitahara, sdelackner9, shiestyle, SueNeu, wendyreid, ivan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>mattgarrish, tzviya</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>wendyreid</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>duga, wendyreid</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#71b4">Footnotes and Extended Descriptions - w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2690</a></li>
<li><a href="#1667">AOB</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section>
<p id=0647 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> Draft F2F Agenda -> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/pm-wg/blob/main/meetings/F2FMeetingFrance2025.md">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>pm-wg/<wbr>blob/<wbr>main/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>F2FMeetingFrance2025.md</a></p>
<p id=5e2e class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Let's start. I promise to bribe the scribes at the F2F<br>
<span id=d3d8>… We have a rough f2f agenda, rough because we want input</span><br>
<span id=35c8>… We tried to push things later in the day for timezone reasons</span><br>
<span id=a0d5>… bu inria has operating hours we have to respect</span><br>
<span id=9bd0>… More technical stuff is afternoon for better attendance for remotes</span><br>
<span id=5155>… if there is a session you want to attend but can't, please let us know</span><br>
<span id=a54a>… And let us know if we missed anything</span></p>
<p id=099b class="phone s02"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> Ouch, that is early</p>
<p id=8245 class="phone s03"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> We should be planning for the a11y TF<br>
<span id=2963>… I don't think we will have time for a meeting beforehand, so can we have a 45 min to 1 hr session at the f2f?</span><br>
<span id=0f63>… And make sure the CharlesL and George can make that time</span></p>
<p id=36c3 class="phone s04"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> We are changing times in Europe, so the times may be wrong</p>
<p id=0ae8 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> [updating the times]</p>
<p id=be3b class="phone s02"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> Fixed layout a11y will be pushed to afternoon?</p>
<p id=648d class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Yes, that will probably be what happens</p>
<p id=dda0 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> We have a new person! Seh, introductions?</p>
<p id=320e class="phone s05"><cite>seth:</cite> I've been working with Dave for years<br>
<span id=c91f>… I need to help Dave with spec work, since he has other things on his plate</span></p>
<p id=f979 class="phone s06"><cite>dhall:</cite> My roles have changed inernally, so Seth will help, but I will stick around</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=71b4>Footnotes and Extended Descriptions - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2690">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2690</a></h3>
<p id=1ce1 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2691">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2691</a></p>
<p id=7e36 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> footnotes have come up a couple of times on the list, and gpellegrino opened an issue on extended descriptions<br>
<span id=ed01>… these are very similar issues</span><br>
<span id=e8d6>… There was once a philosophical decision that epub would explain how to make the metadata, etc, but we wouldn't tell them how to actually write their books</span><br>
<span id=831e>… We are now seeing there is confusion around features, how to do them well and interchangeably</span></p>
<p id=1c25 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/publishingcg/issues/77">w3c/<wbr>publishingcg#77</a></p>
<p id=478f class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> There are probably more issues than just footnotes and extended desc<br>
<span id=1987>… I opened an issue to see if there are other things that would benefit from having an approach</span></p>
<p id=231e class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> cover page!</p>
<p id=89f1 class="phone s07"><cite>SueNeu:</cite> Most of my projects don't let me push the envelope very much<br>
<span id=0733>… can we think of this in two ways, one as a best practices doc, and another for people who want to be more creative?</span><br>
<span id=2356>… We have also matured, RS have really taken over the UX side</span><br>
<span id=2376>… I am not sure I would want to push the envelope for most titles</span></p>
<p id=ec42 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Constraints can be liberating</p>
<p id=afcc class=irc><cite>&lt;SueNeu&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=eb33 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Without constraints we can't provide some features</p>
<p id=04fa class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> +1 to Hadrien</p>
<p id=b4a7 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> setting constraints actually makes features possible</p>
<p id=1900 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Because of the interconnectedness of content and RS, what is the best approach for producing the document?</p>
<p id=171e class=irc><cite>&lt;Dale&gt;</cite> +1 to Hadrien</p>
<p id=ce5a class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> It isn't a huge change to add best practices, but it is huge o put it in the spec</p>
<p id=c4a1 class="phone s04"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> I think a note is the right thing<br>
<span id=d192>… the same as 1.1 a11y techniques doc. Notes are easier to update</span><br>
<span id=d648>… though, with a note we can really check implementations</span></p>
<p id=82df class="phone s03"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> I am reluctant to at user experience mandaes to the spec<br>
<span id=69de>… if we need a normative change we should start from ux</span></p>
<p id=6fdc class=irc><cite>&lt;SueNeu&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=ffff class="phone s09"><cite>duga:</cite> We've certainly had a philosophical position of not mandating UX, except for the times we do (FXL)<br>
<span id=3ad3>… not sure if it's philosophical or practical, footnotes had epub:type for a long time</span><br>
<span id=8d7f>… but it also caused RMSDK to crash, and it was the main way books were displayed for a long time</span><br>
<span id=028c>… we didn't understand the consequences of the decision, and now we have a mess where people avoided using epub:type</span><br>
<span id=cd4b>… and there's endnotes vs footnotes, we're not picking one or the other, not something we can dictate</span><br>
<span id=701c>… we did dictate it, and it didn't work, and we created a problem, but it's hard to put in the spec, we don't know what will crash tomorrow</span></p>
<p id=9f76 class="phone s10"><cite>ivan:</cite> I must admit, it is difficul to put this into practice coming from the web<br>
<span id=b931>… if we put constrains, then are we fighting with what html says to do?</span><br>
<span id=df53>… hml5 goes into extreme detail since it reverse engineers what actually happened in browsers</span><br>
<span id=2aa4>… how would a RS constraint work? Are we splitting the web?</span><br>
<span id=9793>… If I do a note with best practices, that is fine, but if it is normative it is scary</span></p>
<p id=6860 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> There is already a lot we do that isn't the web (e.g pagination)<br>
<span id=33fe>… So this is already the reality</span><br>
<span id=f59c>… So footnotes is probably better as best practices</span><br>
<span id=3107>… We already live in a world where we diverge</span><br>
<span id=10000>… But things like popup footnotes are a problem, since they work one way on one platform and differently on another</span></p>
<p id=b258 class="phone s04"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> We also have spine and TOC which is different from the web<br>
<span id=77bb>… We need guidance on how to mark things up</span><br>
<span id=31c9>… Without proper markup RS have to try and guess which causes problems</span></p>
<p id=13f8 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1 to gregorio</p>
<p id=34e4 class="phone s04"><cite>gpellegrino:</cite> the bar shouldn't be on the RS implementation, but on what we expect from authors</p>
<p id=aa25 class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> +1 to what gpellegrino just said</p>
<p id=c67a class=irc><cite>&lt;LaurentLM&gt;</cite> +1 to Gregorio</p>
<p id=267e class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> We want to push content creators to use html to the full extent<br>
<span id=4225>… And we don't see that much today</span><br>
<span id=23ed>… Some books are just endless P tags, with different styles</span><br>
<span id=2841>… There is also dpub-aria which is under utilised</span><br>
<span id=4b36>… Content creators often don't know what will happen if they use it</span></p>
<p id=4294 class="phone s03"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> Footnote, extended desc, these are important for a11y<br>
<span id=0191>… when they change it causes confusion</span><br>
<span id=160b>… We need conformance reqs</span><br>
<span id=23bf>… for instance, we need a way to get back from footnotes</span><br>
<span id=9474>… this can be broad guidance</span></p>
<p id=e369 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> It is helpful for RS implementors to get things in a standard way - implementors know what things would be good here</p>
<p id=4ede class="phone s10"><cite>ivan:</cite> So we start with some sort of note, say best practices, keeping an eye on whether we need new things in the spec (eg epub types)<br>
<span id=4e9f>… but I am not seeing much need for normative changes</span></p>
<p id=d7ff class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I think that is right</p>
<p id=2da1 class="phone s02"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> Another thing is page breaks, they all seem to be different</p>
<p id=323e class="phone s09"><cite>duga:</cite> On the reading system normative side, I think there are some<br>
<span id=e021>… being able to go back from a footnote, that's a normative thing we might want to say</span><br>
<span id=b711>… it's strange, but there might be something to add there</span><br>
<span id=b0ff>… another thing might be the display of footnotes in popups, most RSs display the text, but footntoes aren't used in Japan, they have ruby</span><br>
<span id=8e01>… we could make normative statements, if you display a popup, use the HTML</span><br>
<span id=4568>… we can spec all we want, but if there is no one doing it, it may not matter</span><br>
<span id=5b5c>… we shouldn't be too prescriptive, we should respect the content</span></p>
<p id=03f8 class="phone s02"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> Also linking in general, the web already has a back buton<br>
<span id=49f7>… having a RS mimic that has been missing</span><br>
<span id=b33b>… for instance one to many links are hard to author correctly wihout rs back funcionality</span></p>
<p id=4491 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> For back affordance, there are some RS that have history<br>
<span id=0875>… sometimes there is contextual back, usually for following links</span><br>
<span id=19e7>… Apple set implementation for popups, but displaying the content richly is really hard</span><br>
<span id=1a73>… styling, for instance, is really hard</span><br>
<span id=f4e5>… No one has managed to do popup + styled</span></p>
<p id=a671 class="phone s11"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> Japanese content is pretty complex, so we generally refrain from footnotes</p>
<p id=5ae6 class="phone s07"><cite>SueNeu:</cite> Ebooks may also diverge on location in the documen<br>
<span id=1ba7>… sometimes we need to be able o point back to a printed item</span></p>
<p id=7a0a class="phone s10"><cite>ivan:</cite> Annotation popups will be an issue</p>
<p id=46ec class="phone s02"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> And footnote popup can be extended to ext desc<br>
<span id=5f7e>… So guidance there would be great</span><br>
<span id=e355>… WW Norton (Evan Yamanishi) did some experiments with that back in the day</span><br>
<span id=6215>… maybe we can use those as examples</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=1667>AOB</h3>
<p id=ea2a class="phone s10"><cite>ivan:</cite> Practical point - how should we handle zooms for TFs? Should we use the same or use new ones?</p>
<p id=4142 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Not likely we overlap with the group meeting<br>
<span id=bf06>… Maybe TF overlaps? But we should probably avoid that</span></p>
<p id=5b80 class="phone s10"><cite>ivan:</cite> I would like the TF leaders to avoid overlap with the main meeting</p>
<p id=3772 class=irc><cite>&lt;LaurentLM&gt;</cite> +1 to Ivan</p>
<p id=3dcd class="phone s10"><cite>ivan:</cite> on the other hand, having two TF overlap can happen<br>
<span id=5462>… If that is a real possibility we should have more zooms</span></p>
<p id=6edb class="phone s02"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> Last week we had csun, I presented guidelines, Amazon was there and they will use it in their store</p>
<p id=c399 class="phone s03"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> This work has been done in the CG if people want to follow along</p>
<p id=e949 class="phone s10"><cite>ivan:</cite> Any chance to get Amazon in this group?</p>
<p id=ed2a class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> Post referenced by Charles: <a href="https://www.fondazionelia.org/en/whats-new/amazon-kindle-will-ingest-accessibility-metadata-following-the-onix-3-1-standards/">https://<wbr>www.fondazionelia.org/<wbr>en/<wbr>whats-new/<wbr>amazon-kindle-will-ingest-accessibility-metadata-following-the-onix-3-1-standards/</a></p>
<p id=e49e class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL&gt;</cite> here is that link for the viewer</p>
<p id=a225 class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL&gt;</cite> DAISY Accessibility Metadata Viewer</p>
<p id=5382 class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL&gt;</cite> <a href="https://daisy.github.io/a11y-meta-viewer/">https://<wbr>daisy.github.io/<wbr>a11y-meta-viewer/</a></p>
<p id=1eeb class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL&gt;</cite> Accessibility Metadata Display Guide for Digital Publications 2.0 <a href="https://w3c.github.io/publ-a11y/a11y-meta-display-guide/2.0/guidelines/">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>publ-a11y/<wbr>a11y-meta-display-guide/<wbr>2.0/<wbr>guidelines/</a></p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 244 (Thu Feb 27 01:23:09 2025 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
