<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group &ndash; 25 September 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group</h1>
<h2>25 September 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2025Sep/0034.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2025/09/25-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AvneeshSingh, CharlesL, Dale, duga, gautierchomel, ikkwong, mgarrish, rdeltour, shiestyle, toshiakikoike</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>wendy</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>SueNeu, wendyreid</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#65be">Issue #428 - w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#428</a></li>
<li><a href="#e1d0">Issue #2216 - w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2216</a></li>
<li><a href="#d6b2">Issue #2508 - w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2508</a></li>
<li><a href="#d537">Issue #2641 - w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2641</a></li>
<li><a href="#bb83">Issue #2664 - w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2664</a></li>
<li><a href="#257f">AOB</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section>
<p id=d214bis class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> @ivan noticed that we have 44 outstanding issues, we have closed 2,
    so let's take a look at some of the older ones</p>
  
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=65be>Issue <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/428">#428</a> - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/428">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#428</a></h3>
<p id=d214 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite>
<span id=19ff>… this issues is about media overlays and the pause class</span><br>
<span id=356d>… this was deferred. No work hasn't been done since an earlier discussion</span></p>
<p id=03e0 class="phone s02"><cite>duga:</cite> The media pause makes sense, on a previous project we wished we had it. I'm not sure there is still a desire for it<br>
<span id=c609>… but we should pause this if there are no implementers interested in it</span><br>
<span id=37b7>… can we pause this since there is no community interest?</span></p>
<p id=0c83 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we have already marked this issue deferred<br>
<span id=8c17>… so keeping the issue open isn't helping anyone</span><br>
<span id=9836>… perhaps we could close the issue and open a new one if an implementer wants it in the future</span></p>
<p id=a7f9 class="phone s03"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> perhaps we can give notice and then close the issue in two weeks if there is no response</p>
<p id=ffff class="phone s04"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> this may run into complications with reading systems allowing users to specify styles<br>
<span id=4336>… I think we should make a note of this and then close the issue</span></p>
<p id=a1a7 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I like AvneeshSingh approach, add a comment like &quot;speak now&quot; or we will close it</p>
<p id=c613 class="phone s05"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> We can simply close this and see if there is any reaction</p>
<p id=a707 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> The problem with just closing it is that it might be overlooked since the issue is so old<br>
<span id=02f4>… we have over 2500 issues in our repository, most of which are closed</span></p>
<p id=aee1 class=summary>*wendyreid added a comment to <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/428">#428</a>
asking for comments before closing the issues</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=e1d0>Issue #2216 - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2216">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2216</a></h3>
<p id=db7b class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> <a
        href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/pull/2234">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2234</a></p>
<p id=5eda class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Issue 2216 this is concerning language we use to describe creators may be a little to narrow</p>
<p id=2a55 class="phone s06"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> I think people are not confused about the difference between &quot;must&quot; and &quot;epub creators must set it&quot;<br>
<span id=1109>… we don't really have the time to rewrite all of the specifications when the issue was raised</span><br>
<span id=3087>… how much time will this take vs the benefits it will bring</span></p>
<p id=2b8b class="phone s02"><cite>duga:</cite> I agree with mgarrish, I don't think anyone will notice and this change won't improve any ebooks<br>
<span id=7715>… at the same time, the language is wrong, and it bugs me</span><br>
<span id=e644>… we don't care if the creator adds the metadata, we just want to be sure it is there</span><br>
<span id=d007>… but on the other hand, no one has ever gotten this wrong</span></p>
<p id=7e4a class="phone s04"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> I see confusion about who is the &quot;creator&quot; when I am doing trainings.<br>
<span id=648e>… I would like to see that addressed</span><br>
<span id=e62d>… I think it would be worth the work</span></p>
<p id=ebe8 class="phone s03"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> can we do this in EPUB 3.4 or not?</p>
<p id=fb6d class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> or can we do this in Accessibiliy 1.2</p>
<p id=4a94 class="phone s03"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> can we take this on in the time frame we have?</p>
<p id=c58d class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we haven't seen confusion in the past, but we may see it in the future<br>
<span id=de00>… we spend a lot of time with the spec, but most people rely on the tools or the trainings</span><br>
<span id=f9c9>… as long as those are clear, is this really required</span></p>
<p id=9a35 class="phone s06"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> the problem hasn't been in how we word things<br>
<span id=fa91>… the definition of &quot;epub creator&quot; is more the problem</span><br>
<span id=86cd>… maybe there is a compromise in looking at that definition rather than rewriting all the specifications</span></p>
<p id=910f class="phone s02"><cite>duga:</cite> You just made a good case for rewriting it<br>
<span id=e026>… we've spent years trying to define &quot;creator&quot;</span><br>
<span id=f293>… maybe we should try to get rid of it</span><br>
<span id=214c>… but because of the timeline, maybe we just defer this again until epub accessibility 1.3</span></p>
<p id=fa7a class="phone s06"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> maybe we start with the accessibility specs and see how much is involved<br>
<span id=dffa>… then if it is too complex we can dump out of it</span></p>
<p id=27dc class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I like that approach. Try in the accessibility document first<br>
<span id=95e8>… to see how hard it is to make the change</span><br>
<span id=fabb>… see how useful it is in 1.2 and abandon it if it is too hard</span></p>
<p id=fd55 class="phone s06"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> I don't mind taking a stab at this and seeing how it goes</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=d6b2>Issue <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2508">#2508</a> - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2508">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2508</a></h3>
<p id=7aca class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we talked about this before 3.3 was published<br>
<span id=bd53>… it didn't make sense to put it into 3.3 in a rush</span><br>
<span id=749e>… mostly it was about datasets that could be used in scripts</span><br>
<span id=e2ac>… should we close this? Epub check already has notifications for this</span></p>
<p id=8617 class="phone s06"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> we added the ability for things to travel in the container without being in the manifest<br>
<span id=4c8c>… EPUB check does flag this if they appear to not being used</span><br>
<span id=9067>… I don't think anyone has complained about unused issues being flagged in EPUB check</span></p>
<p id=2ef4 class=irc><cite>&lt;rdeltour&gt;</cite> I confirm, no feedback related to that received in EPUBCheck</p>
<p id=9a02 class="phone s06"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> Perhaps we could close it off and wait until there is a complaing</p>
<p id=41d3 class="phone s04"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> for demonstration I had an EPUB with a resource linked in the metadata<br>
<span id=7080>… and that's when it happened to me</span><br>
<span id=108d>… but this is an edge case</span></p>
<p id=82d7 class="phone s02"><cite>duga:</cite> I think cleaning up people's unused files is beyond the scope of the spec<br>
<span id=d666>… I bet most publishers send EPUBs with unused fonts</span><br>
<span id=a349>… we could write something that finds those and it would save us lots of file size</span></p>
<p id=1a11 class=irc><cite>&lt;rdeltour&gt;</cite> for the record, the current behavior in EPUBCheck was implemented and described in that PR: <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epubcheck/pull/1465">w3c/<wbr>epubcheck#1465</a></p>
<p id=44f5 class="phone s02"><cite>duga:</cite> I don't see the utility for this</p>
<p id=4a72 class="phone s07"><cite>Dale:</cite> Is there a use case for something that needs to be there and is not referenced?</p>
<p id=53e6 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> the case gautierchomel brought up is probably the most common<br>
<span id=d2f5>… so the certifier report may need to be hidden from the reader</span></p>
<p id=549a class="phone s06"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> one use case is a dataset that travels with a scientific publication that may be needed by the user</p>
<p id=29d9 class="phone s08"><cite>rdeltour:</cite> in anycase epub check cannot verify a resource that is used as a script<br>
<span id=da30>… if we add this rule it cannot be enforced by epub check</span></p>
<p id=3e32 class="phone s02"><cite>duga:</cite> I propose we close the issue</p>
<p id=6b5e class="phone s09"><cite>wendreid:</cite> yes, let's close it until someone comes to us with a clear use case and a proposal for fixing it, this looks like a black hole<br>
<span id=97a6>… is anyone opposed to closing it?</span></p>
<p id=24ce class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I will close the issue since no one is objecting</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=d537>Issue <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2641">#2641</a> - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2641">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2641</a></h3>
<p id=2c68 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> this is opened by someone running into inconsistency in footnotes among browsers<br>
<span id=6a24>… I don't think there is anything we can do spec-wise to fix this</span><br>
<span id=73c6>… but we have talked about writing and testing best practices for footnotes and similar</span></p>
<p id=b084 class=irc><cite>&lt;duga&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=5bbb class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I'd like to close this in favor of our other issue to write something about this</p>
<p id=f084 class=irc><cite>&lt;SueNeu&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=f085 class=irc><cite>&lt;Dale&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=3085 class=irc><cite>&lt;mgarrish&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=7085 class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyle&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=b9af class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> alright<br>
<span id=8c50>… we're closing it</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=bb83>Issue <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2664">#2664</a> - <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2664">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2664</a></h3>
<p id=8337 class="phone s09"><cite>wendreid:</cite> we don't have playorder officially from documents since we got rid of the NCX<br>
<span id=fae8>… playorder is inferred from the spine</span></p>
<p id=2f03 class="phone s02"><cite>duga:</cite> I assumed this was to put play order inside elements within the document?</p>
<p id=3cf5 class="phone s09"><cite>wendreid:</cite> are they talking about reading order within the HTML itself, that comes from the DOM</p>
<p id=612b class="phone s06"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> without George here we aren't sure</p>
<p id=16dc class="phone s04"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> maybe we can tag it with fixed layout<br>
<span id=9a12>… in my experience in training, we have never had a problem with at fixed layout reading order</span><br>
<span id=7f94>… it is doable for now</span><br>
<span id=252d>… let's tag it for fxl and discuss it in the fxl a11y context</span></p>
<p id=9e9d class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> yes, let's do that</p>
<p id=4a12 class="phone s04"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> if you have two html files, and the title is part on one page, and part on the other, you may need to do this<br>
<span id=810d>… but it can be achieved with code now</span></p>
<p id=d408 class="phone s06"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> this sounds like rendition mapping<br>
<span id=734b>… he wants to move from fxl to something else</span><br>
<span id=2d87>… which is a huge issue we've never solved</span><br>
<span id=2cb1>… and he wants a new mechanism for moving around within content</span></p>
<p id=2fa4 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I'll leave this alone until we can talk to George<br>
<span id=456a>… are there any more things to discuss</span></p>
<p id=db32 class="phone s04"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> some of the issue topics can be pushed into discussion</p>
<p id=26d4 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we didn't consider that, we didn't have that option in Github before<br>
<span id=c4bf>… we have used issues for everything. Now that we do have discussions as an option</span><br>
<span id=c55d>… we could explore this</span><br>
<span id=c6c7>… we could set up guidelines about when to set up a discussion and when to open an issue</span></p>
<p id=f8ca class="phone s03"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> multiple channels of communication can be trouble<br>
<span id=f73a>… we already have internal reading list, public reading list</span></p>
<p id=5ca7 class="phone s10"><cite>SueNeu:</cite> What is the functional difference between a discussion and an issue in GH that makes discussions a better idea?</p>
<p id=6ad0 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> discussions are designed to be a bit more like talking to people<br>
<span id=d065>… the accessibility group uses them, responses can be threaded</span><br>
<span id=6bf3>… one of the problems can be hard to follow comments when they overlap</span><br>
<span id=989e>… it makes for a better flow of discussions</span></p>
<p id=ded3 class="phone s06"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> the threaded replies don't always work the way they are intended<br>
<span id=01e7>… we would want some guidance for people about when to open discussions and how to respond</span><br>
<span id=448b>… if you don't have a specific problem you want addressed in the spec it makes sense to set up a discussion even if the discussion threading isn't perfect</span></p>
<p id=b562 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I'll do some research on GH about discussions<br>
<span id=9160>… this might be more geared toward opensource projects</span><br>
<span id=64cb>… there is some merit giving people space to ask a question that isn't a direct issue</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=257f>AOB</h3>
<p id=d4d5 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> is there anything else people wanted to talk about?</p>
<p id=e46b class=summary><a href="https://www.w3.org/2025/11/TPAC/registration.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2025/<wbr>11/<wbr>TPAC/<wbr>registration.html</a></p>
<p id=43ca class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> please register for Tpac if you are attending remotely or in person<br>
<span id=3ad5>… we will be putting our agenda together soon</span><br>
<span id=bd84>… fyi there is a fee for remote participation, $90 US except for invited experts</span></p>
<p id=c1f5 class=summary>If for whatever reason that doesn't work for you, you can apply for a fee waver<br>
<span id=bdc2>… it is usually a simple process</span></p>
<p id=5648 class=irc><cite>&lt;duga&gt;</cite> <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dlfG9mX2mWSGf_Q1LB67OJ_d2UD3IG_X1rfAOTjmb3g/edit?usp=sharing">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>1dlfG9mX2mWSGf_Q1LB67OJ_d2UD3IG_X1rfAOTjmb3g/<wbr>edit?usp=sharing</a></p>
<p id=26cd class="phone s02"><cite>duga:</cite> we have a spreadsheet of people who are planning to attend<br>
<span id=9ae2>… if you post here people will know that you are coming</span></p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 244 (Thu Feb 27 01:23:09 2025 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
