<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco &ndash; 08 May 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco</h1>
<h2>08 May 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2025May/0003.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2025/05/08-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AvneeshSingh, charlesl, duga, gautierchomel, ivan, MasakazuKitahara, mgarrish, shinya, SueNeu, toshiakikoike</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>wendy</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>susan</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>gautierchomel, SueNeu</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#6ede">Review HTML community survey</a></li>
<li><a href="#6c4f">Task forces</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#ac26">digital comics</a></li>
<li><a href="#3351">a11y</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#3249">AOB</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=6ede>Review HTML community survey</h3>
<p id=5b31 class=irc><cite>&lt;SueNeu&gt;</cite> The HTML Survey <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yUYMXh-6j7vbNpXxWOCAACn7e4cr9ZlKV9B4pFZ9xZE/edit?usp=sh">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1yUYMXh-6j7vbNpXxWOCAACn7e4cr9ZlKV9B4pFZ9xZE/<wbr>edit?usp=sh</a></p>
<p id=5f5f class="phone s01"><cite>SueNeu:</cite> hope everyone had a chance to review the proposed survey. Here is the link again.</p>
<p id=2620 class=summary>@ivan I added points one hour ago. A paragraphe to clarify for the community, the difference between epub2 xhtml1.1 and epub3 xhtml serialisation of html.</p>
<p id=3d9e class="phone s02"><cite>duga:</cite> i think we should use xhtml syntax instead of serialisation. It's minor but important. We need to be clear and avoid confusion. We already support html, it's the new syntax we are supporting now.</p>
<p id=d7f1 class="phone s02"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> we have to use fewer open questions or control who we send the survey to</p>
<p id=3b4e class="phone s02"> …we should chose if we want to question technical teams and make the questions more focused</p>
<p id=ab47 class="phone s02"> …I would choose the technical part</p>
<p id=7d9b class="phone s02"><cite>duga:</cite> the question is how do we distribute this survey. With modern tools we can do contextualised questions.</p>
<p id=8d6b class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> i would prefer it not to become a big project. contextualising would need more thought and work on logics.</p>
<p id=bb7e class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> the whole question is of interest and importance for technical people only. Those who produce complex epub, tools, checkers, reading systems. Target is technical people only</p>
<p id=43cd class="phone s04"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> I would prefer not to limit the audience or the timeframe.</p>
<p id=e16d class="phone s05"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> the time spent to make the survey and analyze the data collected, might be better<br>
<span id=b685>… to make it simple</span><br>
<span id=5b36>… we don't need too many people to respond</span><br>
<span id=4ab4>… better to be sure the right people get access to the survey</span><br>
<span id=7ce8>… we could each send the survey to people we know</span></p>
<p id=4298 class="phone s06"><cite>CharlesL1:</cite> I would not differentiate workflow / ingestion. It's a duplication.</p>
<p id=04e5 class="phone s04"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> section 1 is suffitient to get respondent context, i agree there is no need to complex context mechanism</p>
<p id=128a class="phone s06"><cite>CharlesL1:</cite> we want to know if HTML will be used, being for creation or ingestion, and in which timeframe. It's the same question for creation workflow and ingetsion workflow.</p>
<p id=cc78 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> I see the point, section 1 and 2 are about who is the respondent, the real question is only in section 3.</p>
<p id=1511 class="phone s01"><cite>SueNeu:</cite> i also have questions about how we'll deal with the collected data and communicate about it.</p>
<p id=df65 class="phone s05"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> I think we should use a github issue for the tech people</p>
<p id=e5df class=summary>we don't need to collect a lot of responses</p>
<p id=8bc9 class=irc><cite>&lt;duga&gt;</cite> +1 to ivan and gautierchomel</p>
<p id=4665 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> we have one simple question: what happens if we accept html syntax? Which issue will appear? Then yes, Issue tracker is probably a better tool than a survey. We don't need details, only raising the potential issues.</p>
<p id=dc93 class="phone s06"><cite>CharlesL1:</cite> agree with simple large question.</p>
<p id=94ea class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL1&gt;</cite> example for the question: &quot;How strongly to you agree/disagree with the addition of HTML Syntax addition: Strongly Agree, Agree, Neutral, Disagree, Strongly Disagree.&quot;</p>
<p id=3991 class="phone s04"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> also to ask, if you don't plan to implement, why? Instead of checkbox, we need to understand the why Yes or No.</p>
<p id=a8c1 class="phone s02"><cite>duga:</cite> Interesting idea, a one quetsion survey because no one knows for today. Maybe we'll need a bigger and detailed survey later. Not sure github is a good place anyway, it could end up with endless phylosophical discussions. Email sounds more reasonable for now, so we can collect individual feedbacks without having comments on other people responses..</p>
<p id=656d class="phone s06"><cite>CharlesL1:</cite> thru benetech and GCA we have a mailing list. Daisy has different ones too. We can use them to send the survey.</p>
<p id=32fd class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> Could someone put together those discussions and make a proposal? So we don't spend months on discussing details.</p>
<p id=9e5b class="phone s07"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> i agree with one large question, but still a due form method seems better to me, being google or survey monkey. This way we make sure to have one only point of collect and share the results.</p>
<p id=57af class="phone s08"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> we need strong context if we don't want &quot;no move&quot; answers. We need to collect issues and ways to solve them.</p>
<p id=aeb0 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> we have wbs, a w3c form for surveys.</p>
<p id=3682 class="phone s05"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> I can make a proposal for the text part of the survey</p>
<p id=a6df class="phone s05"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> should I make the proposal text in github?</p>
<p id=b45d class="phone s09"><cite>AveneeshSingh:</cite> Google docs can have accessibility issues</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=6c4f>Task forces</h3>
<h4 id=ac26>digital comics</h4>
<p id=3687 class="phone s08"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> comics task force will meet in the next weeks. we are still discussing next steps with my co chair. I was waiting for some feedbacks from the publishing comunity.</p>
<h4 id=3351>a11y</h4>
<p id=4c6b class=irc><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> See minutes: <a href="https://w3c.github.io/pm-wg/minutes/2025-05-01-a11y.html">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>pm-wg/<wbr>minutes/<wbr>2025-05-01-a11y.html</a></p>
<p id=f79f class="phone s07"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> we started on may first. here are the minutes. we'll skip the 15th one and have the next 29th. We discussed new metadata and shall we make accessmodesufficient mandatory. We updated the related issues and are waiting for feedbacks on this.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=3249>AOB</h3>
<p id=f63e class="phone s02"><cite>duga:</cite> back to the survey text, is really the issue the right workflow? Shouldn't we make a file, a PR and comment / amend there?</p>
<p id=ac70 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> yes, PR is the best way.</p>
<p id=d770 class="phone s03"><cite>ivan:</cite> it's early, but we can start thinking about our face to face meeting in Kobe.</p>
<p id=9efe class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyle&gt;</cite> Not spec repo but wg repo will be good for text: <a href="https://github.com/w3c/pm-wg">w3c/<wbr>pm-wg</a></p>
<p id=8c22 class="phone s07"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> Kobe will conflict with daisy board. If we agree with a face to face, i would prefer in the first days of tpac. On monday or tuesday.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 244 (Thu Feb 27 01:23:09 2025 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
