<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco &ndash; 10 January 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>&ndash; DRAFT &ndash;<br>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco</h1>
<h2>10 January 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2025Jan/0004.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2025/01/10-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>avneesh, AvneeshSingh, brady, CharlesL, duga9, George, Hadrien, ivan, laurent, MasakazuKitahara, q+, rickj, shiestyle, SueNeu, toshiakikoike, tzviya, wendyreid</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>wendy</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>SueNeu, SueNeu1, SueNeu8</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>


<p class='phone'>


</p>

<p class='phone'>

<p class='irc'>
    &lt;<cite>ivan</cite>&gt; Meeting: Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco
</p>

</p>

<p class='irc'>
    &lt;<cite>SueNeu</cite>&gt; scribe: SueNeu
</p>

<p class='irc'>
    &lt;<cite>wendyreid</cite>&gt; <a
        href="https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/33280/pmwg-recharter/">https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/33280/pmwg-recharter/</a>
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    wendyreid The charter is up with the W3C
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>Ivan:</cite> we did get one comment on the charter, that the charter is missing reference to 1.2 accessibility
    standard. Are there any reasons we wouldn’t want to change the version number
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>Avneesh:</cite> There is no strong reason, we had a clear agenda on 1.1, right now we don’t have such a
    definitive list for 1.2
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>Ivan:</cite> we use 3.4 for the placeholder version, that should be OK for the accessibllitiy
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>wendyreid:</cite> we want to talk a little bit about work load <br>
    ... and the timing and cadence of meetings
</p>

<p class='irc'>
    &lt;<cite>tzviya</cite>&gt; s/Avneesh There is no/Avneesh: There is no
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>wendyreid:</cite> do we still want to alternate times?
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>George:</cite> I am OK with this time, and the alternative might push into other things. Especially if it
    avoids breaking out an Asian meeting
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>duga9:</cite> Setting the time for this meeting is a thankless job. If this time works for most people, lets
    keep it. It wastes everyones time to have multiple meetings
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>Ivan:</cite> we have set up this meeting to be a fixed time in Japan, but the time will change in other
    regions
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>Wendy:</cite> We don’t have any friends from Apple or Google, and they are on the west coast. This time might
    not be good for them… <br>
    ... perhaps we should consider changing the day. With the consideration that this is part of the weekend in Japan
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>shiestyle:</cite> It is now 11pm on Friday night in Japan. Perhaps another day would be better than every
    Friday night
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>wendyreid:</cite> I’ll set up a survey, perhaps this time is good, but we could consider another day <br>
    ... taskforces. Should we set up task forces that work separately and report back to the main meeting?
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>George:</cite> Doodle has gotten more accessible
</p>

<p class='irc'>
    &lt;<cite>tzviya</cite>&gt; <a href="https://savvycal.com/">https://savvycal.com/</a>
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>tzviya:</cite> I’ve used SavvyCal, it is better for usability and privacy
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>Ivan:</cite> let’s use SavvyCal if is a better tool
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>wendyreid:</cite> to the taskforce model question… <br>
    ... we are already doing this for the accessiblity tf
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>duga9:</cite> taskforce can make it easier to know who is in charge of what, or it can make for 4 or more
    meetings per week
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> Taskforce is the normal model used in the W3C. Do we have people who are ready to
    takeover the taskforce?
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>AvneeeshSingh:</cite> If we don’t it can fall back on the chairs. So we should be flexible
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>Ivan:</cite> Maybe what we should experiment with is to have for each semi-taskforce, one person who drives
    it… <br>
    ... that person should decide if separate meetings are required… <br>
    ... we have several areas of interest. We should start by identifying people who can drive the main sub areas.
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>LaurentM:</cite> We are not enough people to have separate calls. But some areas will only be of interest to
    some parts of the community… <br>
    ... but duplicate calls are unmanageable
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>wendyreid:</cite> we are looking at a lot of meetings because we have taken on a lot… <br>
    ... If we can get leads for the main sub areas, like annotations and webtoons… <br>
    ... I’ll continue with fxl accessibility
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>LaurentM:</cite> I will be OK to lead annotation because we are implementing first shot of annotation support,
    we have some expertise…
</p>

<p class='irc'>
    &lt;<cite>SueNeu1</cite>&gt; scribe: SueNeu1
</p>

<p class='irc'>
    &lt;<cite>tzviya</cite>&gt; kick SueNeu1
</p>

<p class='irc'>
    &lt;<cite>SueNeu8</cite>&gt; scribe: SueNeu8
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>Ivan:</cite> We have taskforce leaders for fixed layout– wendyreid
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    …we have LaurenM for annotation
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    …we have shiestyle and Hadrien for webtoons
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>duga9:</cite> We should likely have a single taskforce for comics and webtoons
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>Ivan:</cite> two more things, one issue is editorship. We still have to have an agreement with Matt if he will
    continue doing the editorship
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    …we have two editors, Matt and I, Matt is driving.
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    …with the taskforces, we have to identify people willing to edit.
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    …additionally, the load of reviewing the spec, horizontal reviews, is important to consider
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    …one way to handle this is to have one person responsible for looking at horizontal issues, like
    internationalization issues
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    …across all documents. They can quickly contact the required groups
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    …we don’t need to decide this today but soon
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>tzviya:</cite> Github is our horizontal monitor but it is a lot of work
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>Ivan:</cite> I am happy to look at internationalization
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>wendyreid:</cite> our last topic, face to face meeting
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    …we thought it would be a good idea to have a meeting in the spring.
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    …following the charter, maybe April or May
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>wendyreid:</cite> the ac meeting is in April this year, in France
</p>

<p class='irc'>
    &lt;<cite>CharlesL</cite>&gt; I can't make it either.
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    LaurentLM, ivan, Rick, and wendyreid will be there
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>Ivan:</cite> we will have a face to face meeting in Japan later this year so we shouldn’t have two in one year
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>LaurentLM:</cite> perhaps we can extend our stay at the AC meeting
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>tzviya:</cite> I am not available at that time
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>wendyreid:</cite> could we have it in Paris before?
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>LaurentLM:</cite> I can help organize that. Maybe it is easier to find another room in Sophia, maybe on Sunday
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    …it is a pretty long train ride from Paris
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>Hadrien:</cite> maybe people coming from abroad are coming to Paris or Nice
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>ivan:</cite> should we put this into the same survey as the meeting days/times?
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>wendyreid:</cite> we should come up with a list of options
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>ivan:</cite> maybe we should look into getting a room in Sophia
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>tzviya:</cite> we were unable to get a new member meeting room on Sunday but had an issue
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>ivan:</cite> can we choose anytime in Paris?
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>Hadrien:</cite> we can find a venue in Paris without a problem
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>duga9:</cite> does anyone know when the visa requirements start for Americans?
</p>

<p class='irc'>
    &lt;<cite>rickj</cite>&gt; <a
        href="https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-an-electronic-travel-authorisation-eta">https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-an-electronic-travel-authorisation-eta</a>
</p>

<p class='irc'>
    &lt;<cite>rickj</cite>&gt; <a href="https://etias.com">https://etias.com</a>
</p>

<p class='phone'>
    <cite>wendyreid:</cite> the UK one has changed dates several times but it looks like mid-2025
</p>

<p class='irc'>
    &lt;<cite>LaurentLM</cite>&gt; <a
        href="https://travel-europe.europa.eu/etias_en">https://travel-europe.europa.eu/etias_en</a>
</p>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 242 (Fri Dec 20 18:32:17 2024 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
