<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group Annotation Task Force Telco &ndash; 18 December 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/assets/logos/w3c-2025/svg/w3c-white.svg" alt=W3C border=0 height=60 width=60></a></p>

<h1>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group Annotation Task Force Telco</h1>
<h2>18 December 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2025Dec/0020.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2025/12/18-pm-ann-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ajellinek, Dale, duga, gautierchomel, Hadrien, ivan, LaurentLM</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>laurentlm</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>duga</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#e751">issue #2835: w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2835</a></li>
<li><a href="#10000">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2850</a></li>
<li><a href="#95b3">Vocabularies</a></li>
<li><a href="#11d7">Zotero vs the draft</a></li>
<li><a href="#extra">Official publications</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=0bfc class=irc><cite>&lt;LaurentLM&gt;</cite> The draft spec is at <a href="https://w3c.github.io/epub-specs/epub34/annotations/">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>epub-specs/<wbr>epub34/<wbr>annotations/</a></p>
<p id=a448 class=irc><cite>&lt;LaurentLM&gt;</cite> Thanks to Ivan for the editorial cleaning.</p>
<p id=ffff class=irc><cite>&lt;LaurentLM&gt;</cite> issue #2835: the creator on an annotation can be a software agent.</p>
<p id=5ea0 class=irc><cite>&lt;LaurentLM&gt;</cite> -&gt; Gautier</p>
<p id=b566 class=irc><cite>&lt;LaurentLM&gt;</cite> #2850: Consider multiple values for Annotation tags</p>
<p id=713a class=irc><cite>&lt;LaurentLM&gt;</cite> -&gt; Readwise, Zotero</p>
<p id=0b85 class=irc><cite>&lt;LaurentLM&gt;</cite> #2851 to 2857 from Ivan, yesterday</p>
<p id=5e1d class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Looking at spec. There are no issues in the text<br>
<span id=3e7c>… we do have some open issues in the tracker we need to discuss</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=e751>issue <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2835">#2835</a>: <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2835">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2835</a></h3>
<p id=f836 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> This is a request to add a software agent as creator of an annotation</p>
<p id=76c9 class="phone s02"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> We already discussed with DAISY, there use cases where we might want these displayed as a set<br>
<span id=af83>… and you may have tools that generate annotations, e.g a tool from ACE</span><br>
<span id=a20f>… So it would be good show this to the user</span></p>
<p id=5cc4 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> At the set level we already have an entry for tool<br>
<span id=68c9>… so in this case ACE would be the tool and the creator</span><br>
<span id=b8bd>… Anyone against?</span></p>
<p id=d0c5 class="phone s03"><cite>crickets:</cite> no noise</p>
<p id=936e class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Ok, I will add it</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=10000><a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2850">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2850</a></h3>
<p id=cdbf class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> This is a request for a list of tags<br>
<span id=b448>… Readwise specifically asked this</span><br>
<span id=a4bc>… they also want the date the tag was made, but that isn't critical. A simple list would be fine</span><br>
<span id=34e6>… are there other implementors on the call who are interested?</span></p>
<p id=2680 class="phone s04"><cite>ajellinek:</cite> We are interested</p>
<p id=c173 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> What do you refer to it as?</p>
<p id=c62b class="phone s04"><cite>ajellinek:</cite> Just tags</p>
<p id=c9be class="phone s05"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I think if we support tags then we have to support multiple<br>
<span id=f210>… otherwise we risk ad hoc systems</span></p>
<p id=30d7 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> I think we have to support tags, so therefore we need multiple<br>
<span id=a85d>… the group seems to be ok with that</span><br>
<span id=806a>… And it yesterday Ivan added several issues, but I haven't had a chance to review them</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=95b3>Vocabularies</h3>
<p id=1a6a class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> This is json-ld, so it is by definiton RDF<br>
<span id=dcab>… so we have to precise and formal</span><br>
<span id=497f>… This sounds scary (making it a proper vocabulary), but it isn't so bad</span><br>
<span id=e0c8>… I have a tool that takes a yaml file for the vocab, and it generates a vocab description</span><br>
<span id=743b>… I generated an annotation vocabulary uses the current doc and all the terms in it</span><br>
<span id=8246>… the classes are pretty good, but the properties are messy</span><br>
<span id=3d9e>… for instance we may need to create sub properties, and a few other things</span><br>
<span id=b9ff>… <a href="https://iherman.github.io/ea-vocabulary/vocabulary.html">demo of generated vocab</a></span><br>
<span id=afd9>… Shows classes, domains, etc</span><br>
<span id=e5fd>… I won't go into the details, but it also makes turtle and json-ld versions</span><br>
<span id=5576>… question is how far do we want to go with this?</span><br>
<span id=6191>… the problem is some changes constrain the general term</span><br>
<span id=a5ba>… e.g. creator must be less than the original. So you can't really do this in rdf, it is just in the text</span><br>
<span id=16ad>… we have to decide if we want to go over all the details or not</span><br>
<span id=2d2d>… we also need to decide on how to handle it editorial (separate doc, appendix, etc)</span><br>
<span id=3445>… The issues are ones that came up during this process</span><br>
<span id=fe48>… none are really complicated</span><br>
<span id=dd45>… we can just take them individually, they are independent of the actual work</span></p>
<p id=ee52 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Ok, that's great! The audience for this will be small<br>
<span id=d70d>… when you say should we be general or go into details</span><br>
<span id=beab>… I think we should consider this like a schema</span><br>
<span id=ef76>… you can't say everything in the schema, we should leave that to the text of the spec</span></p>
<p id=7042 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> Yes, and the the way it works is it makes a link back to the original core spec<br>
<span id=840c>… so it doesn't repeat the text of the core spec</span><br>
<span id=f3bf>… we really need a second pair of eyes to review the results</span></p>
<p id=42e8 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Should we discuss any of these issues today, or wait for the next call?</p>
<p id=5c30 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> [looking] there are some editorial things<br>
<span id=2d0f>… There is one interesting one</span><br>
<span id=bdf5>… You introduced language and direction as terms, which comes from web annotations</span><br>
<span id=aebb>… that was not done with an earlier json-ld</span><br>
<span id=17d6>… but json-ld has added these terms</span><br>
<span id=47aa>… so I think we should just rely on those</span><br>
<span id=07af>… an other one: in annotation set there is an items property. Are these sorted?</span></p>
<p id=92dc class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> For EDRlab it is unordered<br>
<span id=80e4>… there is no sequence, the order is meaningless</span></p>
<p id=b8be class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> I agree, but it needs to be clarified in the spec<br>
<span id=cc8c>… another thing: at the moment, for two classes, the content reference context is a required property. I think that is wrong</span><br>
<span id=34ad>… there is a serialization section, there should be a reference there to the context that should be used</span></p>
<p id=c0d6 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> There is an issue for the rdf (json-ld) when there are 2 urls<br>
<span id=2727>… can we just have 1?</span></p>
<p id=ea46 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> It is possible to import a context file, but security people don't like it</p>
<p id=7a1c class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> I am really thinking of the developers</p>
<p id=1f03 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> The others are mostly editorial</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=11d7>Zotero vs the draft</h3>
<p id=16cb class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> ajellinek did you have a chance to look at the spec?</p>
<p id=388a class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Could you provide any insights?</p>
<p id=7cee class="phone s04"><cite>ajellinek:</cite> Our comments are largely techinical<br>
<span id=25ab>… in terms of what we have so far I like it</span><br>
<span id=874d>… some uris are tricky in our data model, but those are all solvable</span></p>
<p id=0d00 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> So with readwise and zotoro relatively happy, we can probably get to 3 implementations<br>
<span id=226f>… next in January will be selectors</span><br>
<span id=a32f>… the question will be which to take from w3c annotation model? And which to add?</span><br>
<span id=2d21>… and after that, which are mandatory for interop?</span><br>
<span id=315e>… if nothing is mandatory we face non overlapping sets of selectors from developers</span></p>
</section>
<section>
    <h3 id="extra">Official publications</h3>
<p id=46a6 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> Publishing the 2 docs as official w3c docs would be good<br>
<span id=7fc4>… we don't need a final version, this just needs to FPWD to help get reactions from others</span><br>
<span id=4238>… The current draft seems good for FPWD</span><br>
<span id=59c9>… so let's do it ASAP</span></p>
<p id=485a class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> We have to decide whether to do it before or after selectors</p>
<p id=6182 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> FPWD doesn't have to be implementable, it is just a direction<br>
<span id=2aa1>… maybe just put in the fragment selector as an example</span><br>
<span id=b29c>… that is good enough</span></p>
<p id=55af class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Then we can do that in January<br>
<span id=cbba>… how do we add these discussions to the issues?</span></p>
<p id=10001 class="phone s06"><cite>ivan:</cite> it is auto, it will take it from the topic setting</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 248 (Mon Oct 27 20:04:16 2025 UTC).</address>


</body>
</html>
