<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group Annotation Task Force Telco &ndash; 02 October 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>
<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group Annotation Task Force Telco</h1>
<h2>02 October 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2025Oct/0003.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2025/10/02-pm-ann-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>brady, dale, duga5, gautierchomel, hadrien, ivan, kimberg, LaurentLM, toshiakikoike</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>laurentlm</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>DaleRogers</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=6598 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> <a href="https://w3c.github.io/epub-specs/wg-notes/annotations-ucr/">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>epub-specs/<wbr>wg-notes/<wbr>annotations-ucr/</a></p>
<p id=1366 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Use Cases and Requirements have been updated</p>
<p id=afd4 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Change terminology?</p>
<p id=2973 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Change terminology?</p>
<p id=0ea8 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Use Cases and Requirements have been updated.<br>
<span id=fd22>… going through document one by one.</span><br>
<span id=7054>… discussing Locator types</span></p>
<p id=1600 class="phone s03"><cite>duga5:</cite> Should be select text range when selecting text?</p>
<p id=4349 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Should we have an option of selecting full view for audio?</p>
<p id=1e49 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Moving to 9.3.3 Annotation Content<br>
<span id=c529>… no comments. Moving to 9.4.4</span></p>
<p id=f3a8 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Remove last bullet in 9.2.2. Repeated in 9.4.4<br>
<span id=eea8>… moving to 9.5.5 Export and Import</span></p>
<p id=4ce6 class="phone s03"><cite>duga5:</cite> Is highlight types supported for users in 9.3.3</p>
<p id=510e class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Yes.</p>
<p id=9880 class=summary>Discussing highlight types</p>
<p id=f20a class="phone s03"><cite>duga5:</cite> I don't see a highlight type for bookmark. Does that exist?</p>
<p id=3874 class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Discussing different types of case studies and approaches for highlighting</p>
<p id=4352 class="phone s03"><cite>duga5:</cite> Do we have control over the presentation or decoration of Bookmarks?</p>
<p id=976a class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Sometimes decoration is used to given context to the user</p>
<p id=5d66 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Moving 9.6.6 Citation Support</p>
<p id=5592 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> The number of different citation methods in publications are immense. How can we cover them all?</p>
<p id=b237 class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I'm not sure we can handle them all.</p>
<p id=930e class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> EPUB would have to be extended to accomplish that.</p>
<p id=e283 class="phone s05"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> Make sure that we can add other contextual information as cases are identified.</p>
<p id=0341 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Propose that we remove the style requirement since there are so many possibilities.</p>
<p id=f56b class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> We should be able to export the metadata. We should not export styling information.</p>
<p id=d8ec class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> I will reword the section.</p>
<p id=d3fa class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I am concerned about the overwhelming amount of options passed to reading systems.<br>
<span id=d395>… Identify some key metadata elements.</span></p>
<p id=1c6c class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> I will open an issue.<br>
<span id=581a>… moving to 9.7.7 Synchronization</span></p>
<p id=7ceb class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Synchronization is a complicated problem to solve<br>
<span id=aa0e>… synchronization depends on third party solutions that we do not want to take on.</span></p>
<p id=4067 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Do we want to remove this section?</p>
<p id=cdbb class="phone s03"><cite>duga5:</cite> Is this going to create problems later, since it may be requested in the future?<br>
<span id=6da9>… Will this affect how we set up the JSON?</span></p>
<p id=2aae class=summary>Procedural discussion on how to thread and use timestamps in the JSON</p>
<p id=7c69 class="phone s05"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> I propose that we keep it in as a historical reference to the conversation.<br>
<span id=75f0>… and note it as out of scope.</span></p>
<p id=df68 class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Can we specify the JSON metadata as a snapshot?</p>
<p id=8843 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Yes. Let's make a note that synchronization is out of scope.<br>
<span id=1a3c>… moving to 9.8.8 Version Resilience</span></p>
<p id=ffff class="phone s04"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Concerned about automatic reposition of annotations.</p>
<p id=1208 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> We need to keep that option available.</p>
<p id=1487 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Want to present information at F2F meeting.<br>
<span id=40ad>… Want a summary and synthesis</span></p>
<p id=36d3 class="phone s01"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> We'll meet again in 1 month</p>
<p id=39d5 class=summary>Getting clearer on terminology for locators and selectors</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 244 (Thu Feb 27 01:23:09 2025 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
