<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group &ndash; 07 February 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>&ndash; DRAFT &ndash;<br>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group</h1>
<h2>07 February 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2025/02/07-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>AvneeshSingh, CharlesL, dale_rogers, dhall, dlazin, duga, gautierchomel, gpellegrino, Hadrien, ikkwong, ivan, MasakazuKitahara, mgarrish, shiestyle, toshiakikoike, tzviya, wendyreid</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>George</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>shiestyle, wendyreid</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>duga, wendyreid</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#8ccb">Final discussion on WG Naming</a></li>
<li><a href="#4325">Meeting Timing</a></li>
<li><a href="#e916">Taskforces</a></li>
<li><a href="#2f14">Horizontal review experts</a></li>
<li><a href="#5e01">F2F Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=fccd class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> date: 2025-02-07</p>
<p id=6619 class=irc><cite>&lt;toshiakikoike&gt;</cite> I use Loqui (linux)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=8ccb>Final discussion on WG Naming</h3>
<p id=d84d class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Good news - charter passed! No votes against<br>
<span id=bda4>… we are now official, BUT ...</span><br>
<span id=5fd9>… 2 responses included comments</span><br>
<span id=1324>… There is a feeling that &quot;Publishing Maintenance Working Group&quot; isn't really correct</span><br>
<span id=a955>… Do we prefer PMWG or PWG or what?</span></p>
<p id=6e84 class="phone s02"><cite>sueneu:</cite> Are we aligned with other groups on our name</p>
<p id=72de class="phone s03"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> It's a royal pain to switch names, have to change the mailing lists, etc<br>
<span id=dbfc>… How many times, and why?</span></p>
<p id=5458 class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> +1 to Matt</p>
<p id=60f8 class="phone s04"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> I wish Ivan was here, he is better at explaining this<br>
<span id=d96f>… when we discussed with the team, some arguments were legacy of PWG (kind of failed), and why bother (echoing Matt), and 3rd what is the message to the community?</span><br>
<span id=ac4a>… specifically the publishing community, not w3c</span><br>
<span id=8295>… Don't want to worry people that we will make huge changes</span></p>
<p id=7260 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Context - when we started we were PWG (which struggled), but that did not have epub<br>
<span id=238c>… then we were epubwg, and it was done</span><br>
<span id=5b5c>… so then we were pmwg</span><br>
<span id=a784>… So we are still maintaining but also expanding</span><br>
<span id=29d0>… Other groups tend not to have maintenance</span></p>
<p id=88b2 class="phone s05"><cite>ivan:</cite> I check with Phillipe and we are not required to change the mailing list and identifier, so we can stay PMWG for internal details, but then change our publicly facing name<br>
<span id=4c15>… Not saying we should, just that we are not required to</span></p>
<p id=8751 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Feeling sounds like we keep the name, does anyone disagree?</p>
<p id=7631 class="phone s05"><cite>ivan:</cite> We can have an official resolution and send it on to commenters</p>
<p id=9f35 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> Proposed: The working group will keep the name Publishing Maintenance Working Group</p>
<p id=b185 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2e19 class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> 0</p>
<p id=f185 class=irc><cite>&lt;dhall&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=3185 class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=3186 class=irc><cite>&lt;dlazin&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=2f99 class=irc><cite>&lt;sueneu&gt;</cite> 1</p>
<p id=7185 class=irc><cite>&lt;duga&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=7186 class=irc><cite>&lt;mgarrish&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=3187 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=3188 class=irc><cite>&lt;toshiakikoike&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=7187 class=irc><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=3119 class=irc><cite>&lt;Dale&gt;</cite> 0</p>
<p id=3189 class=irc><cite>&lt;gautierchomel&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=7188 class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyle&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=b186 class=irc><cite>&lt;MasakazuKitahara&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=3499 class=irc><cite>&lt;ikkwong&gt;</cite> 0</p>
<p id=c10f class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> The working group will keep the name Publishing Maintenance Working Group</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=4325>Meeting Timing</h3>
<p id=81e8 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Poll results - we said Thursday at 9am Eastern<br>
<span id=e64d>… But maybe people didn't consider the time change</span><br>
<span id=dfee>… Was going to tie it to Japan time so it doesn't change. But that means it will be 10am this summer</span></p>
<p id=a3a8 class="phone s06"><cite>duga:</cite> I don't care, but surprised people voted considering the time change, and probably they meant that time slot</p>
<p id=2401 class="phone s05"><cite>ivan:</cite> I believe we are just used to the situation that we are set to Boston time<br>
<span id=b2a5>… Which is just the normal 2 week EU/US mess</span><br>
<span id=6d92>… which is what I had in mind.</span><br>
<span id=ff86>… But we decided to anchor this group in Japan time, so we are an exception</span></p>
<p id=c933 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> If I set this up as Eastern then it changes in Japan</p>
<p id=6138 class="phone s07"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> [Translating for Japan folks]<br>
<span id=4f2b>… It is currently 11pm, we could move to midnight (it is acceptable)</span></p>
<p id=1333 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Actually, I think it will be 10pm, not midnight<br>
<span id=a49e>… it will now be Thursday, 9am Boston time, as is standard for w3c</span></p>
<p id=7ad7 class=irc><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> It would be good for Asia. The qustion is more for Brady, every meeting will be at 6 AM!</p>
<p id=7540 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Next meeting is Feb 13th</p>
<p id=1bbd class="phone s06"><cite>duga:</cite> Next meeting is first meeting?</p>
<p id=6889 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Yes</p>
<p id=da9c class="phone s06"><cite>duga:</cite> We have to rejoin?</p>
<p id=d813 class="phone s05"><cite>Ivan:</cite> Yes, there are new deliverables</p>
<p id=3370 class="phone s05"><cite>ivan:</cite> There will be a 45 day grace period, but then you have to rejoin<br>
<span id=51ac>… By Tuesday we will be the new group</span></p>
<p id=63e7 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> So AC reps have to do their thing (rejoin or approve)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=e916>Taskforces</h3>
<p id=b841 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Last meeting we started to discuss TFs, I would like to confirm this week<br>
<span id=eca1>… Laurent isn't here, but he did volunteer last time for Annotations</span></p>
<p id=4378 class="phone s08"><cite>hadrien:</cite> I will contact him to verify</p>
<p id=66ca class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I think you (hadrien) had agreed to comics</p>
<p id=010e class="phone s08"><cite>hadrien:</cite> Yes.</p>
<p id=44f2 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> FL is still me</p>
<p id=b164 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> pesent+ dale_rogers</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=2f14>Horizontal review experts</h3>
<p id=3282 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Other thing is to have other people lead horizontal review when the time comes<br>
<span id=22b1>… We have clear people like i13n, a11y, etc</span><br>
<span id=75fe>… Others are less obvious (e.g. Privacy and Security)</span></p>
<p id=355c class="phone s05"><cite>ivan:</cite> Just to remind you, if we get late to horizontal review, it creates a problem at the end<br>
<span id=3d01>… We keep banging up against HR, then we can't publish, etc. Painful loop</span><br>
<span id=ffff>… Better is to start as soon as possible, track all the issues, ping as needed, etc so we have no issues when we want to publish (or no surprises)</span><br>
<span id=3c26>… You don't have to be a security expert, this is more for making sure the experts are pulled in as needed</span></p>
<p id=2542 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Last review was long because we had never been through the review before, and we want to avoid that this time<br>
<span id=97a9>… Just something to consider if you want to volunteer later, or if you know someone who wants to volunteer</span></p>
<p id=10000 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> we have been working with Brazil a lot on edu recently<br>
<span id=0f2c>… they are making epub books available to all students in Brazil</span><br>
<span id=af8c>… There is an issue with access to the volume (e.g. just chapter 1)</span><br>
<span id=dad1>… I wonder if this is something we can tackle with what we have in the spec now, or if there is a better group for it</span></p>
<p id=dc98 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> For the sake of tracking, we should log this. But also, where do we log issues?<br>
<span id=01f7>… We have PMWG, and we also have EPUBSPECS where the actual doc maintenance happens</span><br>
<span id=1c92>… Maybe it should be PMWG?</span></p>
<p id=f91b class=summary><a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs</a></p>
<p id=9703 class=summary><a href="https://github.com/w3c/pm-wg">w3c/<wbr>pm-wg</a></p>
<p id=4a1b class="phone s05"><cite>ivan:</cite> pmwg can be used for whatever we want. Currently that repo is for admin only, but it can be used for whateve we want<br>
<span id=17eb>… Opening a new one doesn't make sense</span><br>
<span id=e1ef>… We also have one for the publishing manifest and one for audiobooks</span></p>
<p id=5a8a class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Hadrien, can you put an issue in the PMWG repo?<br>
<span id=ca68>… I was thinking PMWG for broad issues, then the individual spec repos for specific items</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=5e01>F2F Meeting</h3>
<p id=3c3e class="phone s04"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> It would be helpful to understand the theme of the first face to face<br>
<span id=f478>… Just wondering if I should extend to cover those days</span></p>
<p id=b1e7 class=irc><cite>&lt;duga&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=a3d7 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I will create an issue for the f2f<br>
<span id=357a>… It will probably be a lot of brainstorming and hashing out the work, maybe starting work on some items</span></p>
<p id=09c8 class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/pm-wg/blob/main/meetings/F2FMeetingFrance2025.md">B.t.w. Meeting practicalities</a></p>
<p id=c2f7 class="phone s05"><cite>ivan:</cite> We should get some presentations on the big TF issues<br>
<span id=5198>… So what exactly is annotations now?</span><br>
<span id=8690>… The same for webtoons</span><br>
<span id=e450>… There are some things in a11y</span><br>
<span id=bf46>… Then maybe discuss toHTML or not to HTML</span><br>
<span id=b0f6>… I have a page with all the practicalities [see above]</span></p>
<p id=ac47 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Anything else?</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#c10f">The working group will keep the name Publishing Maintenance Working Group</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 242 (Fri Dec 20 18:32:17 2024 UTC).</address>


</body>
</html>
