<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco &ndash; 08 January 2026</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco</h1>
<h2>08 January 2026</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2026Jan/0004.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2026/01/08-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>ajellinek, charles, CharlesL1, DaleRogers, duga, gautierchomel_, GeorgeK, gman, gpellegrino, Hadrien, ivan, kimberg, LaurentLM, mgarrish, rdeltour, shiestyle, sueneu, toshiakikoike, wendyreid</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>avneeshsingh</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>wendy</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>duga</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#8c5c">Republishing EPUB 3.3</a></li>
<li><a href="#5704">Horizontal Reviews</a></li>
<li><a href="#f95d">Annotations</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of resolutions</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=8c5c>Republishing EPUB 3.3</h3>
<p id=eef8 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> First topic is republishing 3.3<br>
<span id=bc29>… some of the examples for fixed layout were wrong, so those have been updated</span><br>
<span id=b742>… this is just in Core</span></p>
<p id=51ef class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> And it is just a diagram, nothing on the text<br>
<span id=c500>… not even the a11y text, just the image</span></p>
<p id=b0d0 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> PROPOSED: Republish EPUB 3.3 Core for an update to the fixed layout examples.</p>
<p id=70ea class=irc><cite>&lt;duga&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=70eb class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=b0ea class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=f0ea class=irc><cite>&lt;mgarrish&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=f0eb class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=30ea class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL1&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=30eb class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyle&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=30ec class=irc><cite>&lt;sueneu&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=30ed class=irc><cite>&lt;gautierchomel_&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=30ee class=irc><cite>&lt;DaleRogers&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=30ef class=irc><cite>&lt;rdeltour&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=30f0 class=irc><cite>&lt;kimberg&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=f0ec class=irc><cite>&lt;gpellegrino&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=5286 class=resolution><strong>RESOLUTION:</strong> Republish EPUB 3.3 Core for an update to the fixed layout examples.</p>
<p id=30f1 class=irc><cite>&lt;GeorgeK&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=db4b class="phone s03"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> When I went to prepare that, I got an error about Dave not being a member so he can't be listed as editor<br>
<span id=1063>… so I moved him to previous authors, is that ok with everyone?</span></p>
<p id=6c6a class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> But he was the editor, do we need to change it?</p>
<p id=94b9 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> There is a very strict rule that when you publish the editor must be a member<br>
<span id=55bc>… we would have to request an exception</span></p>
<p id=1084 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> This must have come up before, people have edited old docs before</p>
<p id=47cd class="phone s03"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> Yeah, but was the editor still in the group in those cases? That is what I have seen</p>
<p id=68b0 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Let's be fair to the system, we are publishing a new version with new dates<br>
<span id=5fa8>… so Dave isn't the editor of the 2026 version</span></p>
<p id=d9b2 class="phone s04"><cite>sueneu:</cite> Will Dave care? We don't want to be dismissive of his work</p>
<p id=9081 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I would prefer to ask first</p>
<p id=6cc2 class="phone s05"><cite>DaleRogers:</cite> Is there a former editor field?</p>
<p id=74e7 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> yes, that is where he will go</p>
<p id=c6bf class="phone s03"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> So his name will still be at the top, but under former editor</p>
<p id=90a8 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> We should just go ahead</p>
<p id=79db class="phone s06"><cite>CharlesL1:</cite> But we should reach out to Dave and let him know</p>
<p id=9844 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Yeah, I will do that</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=5704>Horizontal Reviews</h3>
<p id=6f1a class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> These are on the horizon<br>
<span id=5858>… we need these so these can go to CR</span><br>
<span id=727a>… i18n, security, privacy, a11y, and architecture (TAG)</span><br>
<span id=7662>… Avneesh has offered the a11y TF for a11y, but we still need the others</span><br>
<span id=2f23>… we need this for core, rs, a11y, and annotations</span><br>
<span id=b145>… chairs will reach out the horizontal review groups on how they want us to proceed with the reviews</span><br>
<span id=5e92>… as some of those specs have very little change</span><br>
<span id=c13e>… annotations will need review, even though it is based on an existing rec</span></p>
<p id=d466 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> All the normative changes are documented in the changes section, correct?</p>
<p id=50c9 class="phone s03"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> yes</p>
<p id=ed8a class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> So when we reach out, we can pull the interesting entries from the changes,<br>
<span id=aa82>… maybe just a 3 or 4 item list</span></p>
<p id=da58 class="phone s03"><cite>mgarrish:</cite> Yeah, not every change log needs review<br>
<span id=4943>… I just did something similar for epubcheck</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=f95d>Annotations</h3>
<p id=92ff class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> LaurentLM do you want to start with an overview?</p>
<p id=26a4 class=irc><cite>&lt;gautierchomel_&gt;</cite> <a href="https://w3c.github.io/epub-specs/epub34/annotations/">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>epub-specs/<wbr>epub34/<wbr>annotations/</a></p>
<p id=658f class=irc><cite>&lt;gautierchomel_&gt;</cite> <a href="https://w3c.github.io/epub-specs/wg-notes/annotations-ucr/index.html">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>epub-specs/<wbr>wg-notes/<wbr>annotations-ucr/<wbr>index.html</a></p>
<p id=21a7 class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Currently stable are use cases, requirements<br>
<span id=125d>… body and target are final</span><br>
<span id=ced1>… and everything you need for ??? are stabilized</span><br>
<span id=77ad>… ivan has a paper we need to review</span><br>
<span id=f262>… and we have buy in from several reading systems on what we have done so far</span><br>
<span id=00c2>… ivan suggests we merge annotations into this group, and to publish soon as WD</span></p>
<p id=79eb class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> If we publish FPWD, it puts a stake in the ground to get early comments<br>
<span id=039a>… and horizontal review can start</span><br>
<span id=bb80>… to get them earlier rather than later</span><br>
<span id=e5e7>… So I think it is a good thing, and having seen FPWD before, this one is very mature</span><br>
<span id=dfc6>… so when we get to a good point we should publish. As a draft we can update it whenever</span></p>
<p id=14d6 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> the benefit to FPWD is nothing has to really be decided</p>
<p id=6ba1 class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> I would like to have at least one selector before FPWD</p>
<p id=47b3 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I wonder if we should start with CFI since people know it</p>
<p id=e5d3 class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> I will go back to implementors and see what they would like as first and best</p>
<p id=e0a3 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> One difference between when we made open annotations and now is new selector to specify ranges in text<br>
<span id=9071>… It is now on the way to being part of the HTML standard, and is broadly implemented</span></p>
<p id=7978 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/URI/Reference/Fragment/Text_fragments">https://<wbr>developer.mozilla.org/<wbr>en-US/<wbr>docs/<wbr>Web/<wbr>URI/<wbr>Reference/<wbr>Fragment/<wbr>Text_fragments</a></p>
<p id=db3e class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> With some caveats</p>
<p id=e792 class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> But that would be good as first selector</p>
<p id=b76a class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I am in favor text fragments, but browser just scrolls to the text and selects it<br>
<span id=c660>… but we need an API which doesn't exist</span><br>
<span id=c470>… so we don't have JS APIs to get a reference to that place in the document</span><br>
<span id=64a8>… so it has to be completely implemented by the RS, so if there is no library for it</span></p>
<p id=9695 class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> There is an old buggy JS library from Google, the browsers don't have an API, it is a mess</p>
<p id=87bf class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Is what we define in the spec a format to exchange annotations? So we don't define the implementation</p>
<p id=239f class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Well, we need to define an interchangeable selector</p>
<p id=fcd1 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> But the selector is clearly define in htm<br>
<span id=7b58>… l</span></p>
<p id=5d8b class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Yes, but if devs don't have interoperable tools ...</p>
<p id=52dc class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> What do you mean by interoperable?</p>
<p id=0289 class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> So if I have some text we need to be able to find it<br>
<span id=efb0>… so if there is no JS library for this or API, then we can't do anything with that selector</span></p>
<p id=cd48 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Ah, I see. Then we do have a problem</p>
<p id=2f8d class="phone s04"><cite>sueneu:</cite> LLM search does a good job of extracting and linking to text<br>
<span id=d1dc>… maybe there is something the LLMs are using</span></p>
<p id=2d9c class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Those let the browser do the work</p>
<p id=6d3a class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> I am worried that we would define such an API</p>
<p id=b4ef class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I mentioned webview, but it is also true of a web app in a browser<br>
<span id=542b>… sometimes the API is browser only, but in this case, it is in neither</span><br>
<span id=b6e7>… I agree we shouldn't define an API, but we should figure out where this would be done</span><br>
<span id=9e63>… as an API will have a huge impact on our work</span></p>
<p id=ff90 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> I am concerned that we can't define the API for this<br>
<span id=bba8>… and there is no guarantee it would be implemented</span><br>
<span id=3a8f>… we can go to the various groups and see if we can get support for it</span><br>
<span id=778c>… so we can at least get a yes or no on it</span><br>
<span id=f3a6>… Maybe we can get a shell of an API, and we can provide that to all implementors</span><br>
<span id=64b7>… we really want to avoid different syntaxes</span></p>
<p id=c335 class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> We can take the w3c syntax<br>
<span id=4271>… so the primary selector should be one we know everyone can implement</span></p>
<p id=3527 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> we have to reach out to the TAG for review<br>
<span id=85d1>… then we can get the TAG on our side</span></p>
<p id=4e02 class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> We can say we only keep this if browsers provide an API as leverage</p>
<p id=f27e class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> reading progress is the &quot;easy&quot; part of the discussion, and it isn't that easy</p>
<p id=2c7a class=irc><cite>&lt;gman&gt;</cite> google search has the capacity to highlight and lead to a given website's segment in the search results; the code is #:~:text=start_text,end_text from what i remember</p>
<p id=6370 class="phone s06"><cite>CharlesL1:</cite> this needs to work on the web</p>
<p id=f672 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> text fragment can work on the web, but we need to know the URL on the web<br>
<span id=9be1>… in epub we have a path</span><br>
<span id=8454>… so the issue between the web and epub is more the path, not the fragment</span></p>
<p id=2c76 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> I think in epub3.3 we discussed how URLs worked in EPUB<br>
<span id=e49e>… and we got to reasonable clarity</span><br>
<span id=7f89>… so we clearly defined the root, etc</span></p>
<p id=789f class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> many people have had this discussion, and it depends if the root is OPF or top level</p>
<p id=fcb0 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> in 3.3 we discussed this</p>
<p id=a2cf class="phone s06"><cite>CharlesL1:</cite> I thought we had brought in the TAG to this discussion, maybe we should revisit those minutes?</p>
<p id=e334 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> When it comes to the URL with the selector for the annotation - does it really matter?<br>
<span id=010a>… there are basically two parts, the bit before the fragment, then the fragment</span><br>
<span id=7401>… if the fragment tells us the chapter, then does it matter what comes before?</span><br>
<span id=62dd>… if we say everything after some point must be the same, and everything before can be whatever, then does it matter what comes first?</span></p>
<p id=0f23 class="phone s09"><cite>rdeltour:</cite> I just want to clarify what we did in 3.3, which was how to resolve relative URLs<br>
<span id=877e>… for this discussion, the container root is implementation dependent</span><br>
<span id=6b72>… so we know how to process relative URLs against the root URL, but what that URL is depends on the implementation</span></p>
<p id=e422 class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> Inside epub it isn't really a problem<br>
<span id=c65a>… which can be relative</span><br>
<span id=c0df>… the only issue is translating to the web</span><br>
<span id=8718>… this is not epub dependent, it is just how do we move an epub annotation to a web publish, which isn't an epub problem</span></p>
<p id=2e45 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I disagree. We need to know what the root is, we have seen disagreement on this<br>
<span id=ff10>… say we have a web reader (not publication) and the server has access to the ZIP</span><br>
<span id=f441>… this is also a problem for epub, not just web pubs</span></p>
<p id=b459 class="phone s06"><cite>CharlesL1:</cite> When you create the application you have all the info (current chapter, opf, etc)</p>
<p id=5f64 class=irc><cite>&lt;LaurentLM&gt;</cite> THe spec relative to the annotation Target element is <a href="https://w3c.github.io/epub-specs/epub34/annotations/#1-3-1-source">https://<wbr>w3c.github.io/<wbr>epub-specs/<wbr>epub34/<wbr>annotations/#1-3-1-source</a></p>
<p id=fb24 class="phone s06"><cite>CharlesL1:</cite> so it is up to the reading system to figure out how to find the annotation<br>
<span id=1d03>… is that what we are trying to define here?</span></p>
<p id=0415 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> We have a path, but we don't know how to calculate it</p>
<p id=856e class="phone s07"><cite>LaurentLM:</cite> can we extract from 3.3 or 3.4 how the src is to be defined? I will check</p>
<p id=7a1b class="phone s09"><cite>rdeltour:</cite> Could Hadrien clarify what he meant by what is not currently clear? From my understanding the spec is very clear<br>
<span id=7cfd>… we clarified this in 3.3</span><br>
<span id=a461>… whether it is the root or the opf is speciffied</span><br>
<span id=77b8>… what we don't have is how to expand a URL into an epub</span><br>
<span id=b2dd>… but that isn't needed as part of epub. Is that what you meant?</span></p>
<p id=3f25 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I was talking about annotation, we need to know how to build a URL?<br>
<span id=4399>… how do we calculate that, are we at the top of the container? Or somewhere else?</span></p>
<p id=4f1e class=irc><cite>&lt;rdeltour&gt;</cite> then my suggestion is to refer to &quot;URLs in the OCF abstract container&quot; <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/epub-34/#sec-container-iri">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>TR/<wbr>epub-34/#sec-container-iri</a></p>
<p id=09a2 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> I am not talking about using a URL to point at an epub<br>
<span id=4ed7>… we tried that before and it didn't go well</span><br>
<span id=7732>… and we don't need to be able reference everything as a URL</span></p>
<p id=0e4f class="phone s10"><cite>gman:</cite> Hadrien you mentioned different roots, can you give pros and cons for those?</p>
<p id=4da7 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> not today, but maybe I can write something up</p>
<p id=c607 class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> This is an epub annotation spec, so we should use the epub way</p>
<p id=6395 class="phone s08"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> In the spec we have files. If we assume the annotation has a well known location we are fine, but if we don't then the path has to be constructed<br>
<span id=608f>… so we can't just point at the epub spec</span></p>
<p id=ffff class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> We should probably have an idea of what selectors will look like for FPWD</p>
<p id=6edf class="phone s02"><cite>ivan:</cite> Are we moving annotation meetings here?</p>
<p id=7426 class="phone s01"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> Seems like we should</p>
<p id=4d5c class=irc><cite>&lt;CharlesL1&gt;</cite> +1 to move into this call :)</p>
<p id=d4e4 class=irc><cite>&lt;gman&gt;</cite> +1 too</p>
<p id=72bc class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=32bc class=irc><cite>&lt;ivan&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=72bd class=irc><cite>&lt;rdeltour&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=f2bc class=irc><cite>&lt;sueneu&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=b2bd class=irc><cite>&lt;shiestyle&gt;</cite> +1</p>
<p id=b2be class=irc><cite>&lt;DaleRogers&gt;</cite> +1</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ResolutionSummary>
<h2>Summary of resolutions</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#5286">Republish EPUB 3.3 Core for an update to the fixed layout examples.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 244 (Thu Feb 27 01:23:09 2025 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
