<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Digital Comics TF &ndash; 15 January 2026</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/assets/logos/w3c-2025/svg/w3c-white.svg" alt=W3C border=0 height=60 width=60></a></p>

<h1>
Digital Comics TF</h1>
<h2>15 January 2026</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2026/01/15-pm-dc-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>CharlesL, DaleRogers, duga, Hadrien, MasakazuKitahara, shiestyle, toshiakikoike</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>Hadrien Gardeur, Shinya Takami</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>duga</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#5470">Remaining non-normative work</a></li>
<li><a href="#3f40">Schedule for new TF in CG</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section></section>

<section>
<h3 id=5470>Remaining non-normative work</h3>
<p id=5765 class="phone s01"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> There have been some items we covered that were normative and are in the spec (e.g. role, etc)</p>
<p id=4387 class=irc><cite>&lt;Hadrien&gt;</cite> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/2759">w3c/<wbr>epub-specs#2759</a></p>
<p id=55e9 class="phone s01"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> we still have a non-normative item<br>
<span id=028a>… This doesn't really need the WG, we can do it</span><br>
<span id=f5da>… Then there were some non-normative issues, like images in spine</span><br>
<span id=555a>… at tpac we said we might want some examples of that</span><br>
<span id=7424>… If we don't have any normative items left, what do we do?</span><br>
<span id=e6d9>… maybe put the TF on hold, and just do the non-normative work in the CG</span><br>
<span id=4182>… which might give us more people</span><br>
<span id=a6ea>… By moving this to the CG we might have more input, to get a better output</span><br>
<span id=6faf>… This is very tempting</span><br>
<span id=3440>… we would only need to meet maybe once a month</span><br>
<span id=9083>… There are some admin issues like timing of the meeting</span><br>
<span id=646a>… so moving this to the CG sounds like a good idea</span></p>
<p id=79f5 class="phone s02"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> We are planning to stop this TF for now and move to CG. Are there any comments or opinions?</p>
<p id=bad9 class="phone s01"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Gautier, thoughts?</p>
<p id=ebb6 class="phone s02"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> I spoke with Ivan, they can add a new calendar entry</p>
<p id=4c59 class="phone s03"><cite>DaleRogers:</cite> I understand the idea of the move, my question is if ideas come out of the CG, do those go directly to the WG?</p>
<p id=e5a6 class="phone s01"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> For normative items, it could come to this TF, since we would just be paused<br>
<span id=8c42>… but we haven't found anything that would apply</span></p>
<p id=89bb class="phone s03"><cite>DaleRogers:</cite> I will look into joining that, as I would like to keep participating</p>
<p id=bd4a class="phone s02"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> We have two options, move to CG, or we can move to the main call. It depends on the status of the proposal</p>
<p id=8b01 class="phone s04"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> We are happy to house this at the CG<br>
<span id=6fbd>… this would be a TF of the CG</span></p>
<p id=8ca3 class="phone s01"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> That is what we wanted</p>
<p id=8f16 class="phone s04"><cite>gautierchomel:</cite> That is easy to do if we want to go this way<br>
<span id=30c9>… I just have some minor things to do on the CG side</span></p>
<p id=ec5d class="phone s05"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> I have no problem with the move<br>
<span id=edca>… What about SMIL and comics? Should we move that incubation to the CG?</span></p>
<p id=0e2e class="phone s01"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Anything related to incubation is great for the CG</p>
<p id=90ac class="phone s02"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> 3.4 is basically closed, so if we do have normative changes, they may want to move to a later version</p>
<p id=1679 class="phone s05"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> We have already approached adding more if SMIL to epub<br>
<span id=be51>… so if it does get added we could look at writing best practices on how to write such comics at the cg</span></p>
<p id=d16b class="phone s01"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Accessibility group is the most mature, since they have both normative and non-normative<br>
<span id=0c8c>… we should follow that</span></p>
<p id=08c2 class="phone s02"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> 3.4 is almost closed for normative changes, but we can add a WG note later</p>
<p id=74d6 class="phone s03"><cite>DaleRogers:</cite> In the community, a big issue is implementation<br>
<span id=a58a>… Hadrien, you mentioned that there are already RSes experimenting with similar features</span><br>
<span id=78d9>… will it be easy for them to switch to a SMIL version?</span></p>
<p id=fc75 class="phone s01"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> For specialized libraries, they worked mainly with DAISY files<br>
<span id=f6d8>… But gradually they are moving to epub</span><br>
<span id=da06>… epub with MO is becoming their core format</span><br>
<span id=215b>… so there expectation for comics with pre-recorded audio is outside this since there was no format</span><br>
<span id=edd1>… but since they are already betting on epub, there is a likelihood that if they can do this, they will</span></p>
<p id=1b3c class="phone s01"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> ANother benefit to the CG is we won't be bound by time<br>
<span id=b954>… so we can continue to discuss comics issues even after the WG charter expires</span><br>
<span id=1753>… we have a gap that can be filled with best practices documents</span><br>
<span id=f6a4>… e.g. Japanese publishers have a best practices for Manga, it would be good to have a global best practices</span><br>
<span id=958a>… we can do that in the CG</span></p>
<p id=73b1 class="phone s02"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> That can be a CG or WG notes<br>
<span id=8c41>… no objections?</span></p>
<p id=e269 class="phone s01"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> so we will cancel the meeting in the calendar, but we should send an email to the group to explain we aren't closing down<br>
<span id=05cb>… we are just pausing</span></p>
<p id=d54d class="phone s02"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> Let's talk schedule for the CG TF<br>
<span id=497d>… when should we meet next</span></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=3f40>Schedule for new TF in CG</h3>
<p id=9ae4 class="phone s02"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> when is better for you?<br>
<span id=41e0>… after WG call is currently midnight</span></p>
<p id=ff86 class="phone s01"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Question for Americans - can we do it an hour before the call?<br>
<span id=0a10>… I don't know where the American publishers are, NY?</span></p>
<p id=d9bc class="phone s05"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> That's early</p>
<p id=3564 class="phone s03"><cite>DaleRogers:</cite> Yes, that is early for regular meetings</p>
<p id=ffff class="phone s01"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> We would probably only do once per month</p>
<p id=405b class="phone s02"><cite>shiestyle:</cite> Or wednesday as the same time slot as the WG call</p>
<p id=f271 class="phone s05"><cite>CharlesL:</cite> That could work</p>
<p id=c3ef class="phone s03"><cite>DaleRogers:</cite> I agree</p>
<p id=7189 class="phone s06"><cite>duga:</cite> Should we wait until this moves?</p>
<p id=bbbc class="phone s01"><cite>Hadrien:</cite> Yeah, we should probably skip Feb, then we can see who else can join</p>
</section>

</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 248 (Mon Oct 27 20:04:16 2025 UTC).</address>


</body>
</html>
